This is Jockel Podcast number 277 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink. Good evening, I
go. Good evening. It is again impressed upon every officer and man of this command that
ground once captured must under no circumstances be given up in the absence of direct, positive
and formal orders to do so, emanating from these headquarters. Troops occupying ground
must be supported against counter attack and all gains held. It is if favorite trick of the
Germans to spread confusion by calling out retire or fall back. If inaction any such
command is heard, officers and men may be sure that it is given by the enemy. Whoever
gives such a command is a traitor and it is the duty of any officer or man who is loyal
to his country and who hears such an order given to shoot the offender upon the spot.
They are not going back but forward. So came the order from Major General Robert
Alexander on the morning of September 26, 1918 at the beginning of the Muse Argonne
Offensive World War I. A few days later, October 1, Major Charles White Wittlesy was given
his orders. He was to advance north up the Argonne ravine, go across a brook and take
Charlottesville mill and the purpose was to get control of this mill from which a nearby
road and nearby rail line could be controlled. I want to say that completed. They were to push
on to heal 198 to be to complete a flanking maneuver on the enemy. This is salt. Started
on October 2. The man woke up eight breakfast and commenced to fighting by the evening
of October 2. Major Wittlesley got reports that his men had found a way up hill 1,198.
So they attacked. Got control of the hill. Got control of the hill with men from battalions
of the 307th and 308th infantry regiments of the 154th infantry brigade 77th division.
Now once he got control of this hill, didn't receive any communication from the French unit
that was supposed to be protecting his left flank and no communication from an American
unit that was supposed to be protecting his right flank. And it's World War I. There's
no radios or anything where the flanks had collapsed. He didn't know this, but the Germans
had taken the ground. Wittlesley and his men dug in. Created a defensive position on that
hill which became known as the pocket. At about 2230 that night, Wittlesley realized
the Germans were on hill 205 and they were in the ravine off to his right. The morning
of October 3, Wittlesley sent out runners to his flanks to establish communications
find out where these American and French units were. That's what you did in World War.
One, when you know what was happening, you didn't have radios to call, so you sent runners
or you sent carrier pigeons. So he sends out the runners to the left and right flank,
known of them come back. Since carrier pigeons with various messages about their position
and situations, receives no communication back. And he comes to the realization that they
must be completely surrounded. On the afternoon of October 3, the Germans attacked from all
sides. One of the American company commanders, a guy named Captain Holderman, let a break
out to try and connect with allied forces took massive casualties and the breakout was
stopped so they're surrounded and stuck. And the Germans attacked with mortars to get the
heads down and then got closer and attacked with grenades. Then the Americans held.
And as evening approached, the Germans backed off because while the Germans were assaulting,
not only did they cause massive casualties, they received massive casualties. On the
morning of four October, the major, major whittles, he was worried that no one knew what
his situation was. There was massive casualties. And then they began getting sheld. But
they began getting sheld by their own artillery. And he has one last carrier pigeon left.
And he launches it. And this last carrier pigeon arrives at headquarters. It's been shot
through the breast. It's been blinded one eye. And it's got one leg hanging on by a tendon.
And the message says, we are along the road parallel to 276.4. Our own artillery is dropping
a barrage directly on us for heaven's sake. Stop it. So the artillery stops. And then
the Germans attack again. And they're driven back once again. And there's again mass casualties
on both sides, except for that the Americans are running low on ammunition. They don't
have any food. The one water source that they had close by exposed them to German fire. And
so this continues on the fifth and the sixth of October. Attack after attack, the wounded in
the dead pile up. And on the seventh of October the Germans send a blind folded American
POW forward carrying a white flag. And he has a note with him. And the note is directed
to the commanding officer of the Americans. And it says, the suffering of your wounded men
can be heard over here in the German lines. And we are appealing to your humane sentiments to stop.
The white flag shown by one of your men will tell us that you agree with these conditions.
Please treat private lowl are hauling sheds, the bearer of this note as an honorable man.
He's quite a soldier. We envy you.
Signed the German commanding officer.
And major, whittles the allegedly replied, you go to hell.
So they honkered down and they braised for more attacks. And then that night a relief
force arrived and the Germans finally retreated. And of the 554 troops that originally attacked,
that hill, 190 wounded, 63 were missing and 17 were killed. Only 194 were able to walk out.
They became known as the lost battalion. There were seven medals of honor awarded for this action,
including one two major Charles W. Whittlesley, who was immediately promoted to Lieutenant Colonel.
And if you are tracking the dates here, this was an October of 1918, and the war ended
a little over a month later November 11th, 1918, and this became in America, one of the most
publicized events of the war. So the war ends in November of 1918. In 1919,
there's a movie came out. The movie was called the Lost Battalion. Whittlesley himself
was in the film, playing himself.
And it's a silent film. You can go watch it. You can see him. You can see him reenacting
these events. And he tried to go back to civilian life. He's now out of the army
and he's smart and he's educated. He's has a law degree from Harvard and he added his own law
partnership before the war. But obviously things had changed. And one thing that had changed was
a movie star and a hero and there was this constant demand for speeches and there were
parades for him and interviews and the star to wear on him and in November of 1921,
he served as a Paul Bear at the burial of the unknown soldier at Arlington National Semitary.
And a few days later, he booked a trip on a ship from New York to Havana, a ship called the SS
to Lowa. And he set sail on November 26, 1921. And that night he had dinner.
He chatted with some people about 1130 that night. He left for his state room.
And in the morning, the stewards knocked on his door to going to his cabin and no one answered
to the entered his cabin so they could clean. And they found a note. And the note said
to the captain of the SS to Lowa. Deer Sir, my name is Charles W. Wittlesy,
14 Wall Street, New York City. I'm enclosing some money and my watch.
Please give $10 to each of the deck stewards, the room stewards and the table steward.
To duck what is necessary for sending the enclosed wireless messages and send my balance to my
executor John B. Pruehn to Rector Street, New York City.
Please throw my suitcases and close overboard. I don't want anything returned.
And I'm writing my father that I'm making this request of you.
Here are the messages I would very much appreciate you sending. One, Frank R. Wittlesley,
38 Palmerway Avenue, Pittsfield, Massachusetts, your son Charles Wittlesley jumped overboard
and was drowned yesterday. He left letters for you mailed from Havana and notified Pruin
and the Lysha Wittlesley. Two John B. Pruehn to Rector Street, New York City. Charles Wittlesley
jumped overboard and was drowned yesterday. He left a letter for you that will be mailed from Havana.
I am notifying his father Frank Wittlesley and his brother, Alysha Wittlesley.
Alysha Wittlesley, 136 East 44 Street, New York City. Your brother, Charles Wittlesley,
jumped overboard and was drowned yesterday. He left a letter for you that will be mailed
from Havana. I am notifying your father and John B. Pruehn.
And number four, Robert F. Little 14 Wall Street, New York City,
looking your upper left hand drawer of my desk for memorandum of law matters that I've been attending to.
I shall not return.
I am very sorry to bother you with these unpleasant details.
Cyan Charles W. Wittlesley.
His body was never recovered and they put a stone for him in the military cemetery in
Pitsfield Massachusetts that reads in memory of Charles W.
Wittlesley Lieutenant Colonel US Army World War I 1884 to 1921.
Metal of Honor.
And that's that.
Hero and the tragedy and you can't help but ask yourself how does this happen.
How does the story of heroism and camaraderie encourage how does that turn into a story of
despair and loneliness and loss of hope?
And what can we learn from that story?
How can we learn to avoid that tragedy and move away from the darkest and move toward the light?
And here tonight to discuss that with us.
There's one of the few people in the world that can have some semblance of understanding
of that story of what Colonel Wittlesley went through.
His name is Dakota Meyer and if you don't know who he is then just stop listening right
now and go listen to podcast number 115.
Dakota Meyer is a Marine.
He's a sniper.
He's a father.
He's a recipient of the Metal of Honor.
He's one of my heroes.
My most important is one of my friends.
Dakota.
Thanks for coming down man.
Thanks for having me.
Man.
That's, you know, that hits home.
You know I was listening to the last time you were on this podcast.
And we basically kind of closed it out after you received the Metal of Honor.
I mean we went just a little bit past it.
But you know since then, you and I have talked about things that are going on and what
it was like after that.
And you know as I read through that story of Colonel Wittlesley, you can see there's
definite parallels.
Oh, I mean it's, yeah I mean like why you were reading it.
I mean like I was like tearing up because like I could just, I could feel how lonely
that guy was.
You know it's, yeah.
I mean you know, how do you, yeah I mean there's, like what do you do the rest of
your life?
You know like what do you, what do you do the rest of your life?
You know like yeah you can keep going and giving back.
But it's also a lonely road because you know everybody's sitting here just, first off
you don't know why they're around you.
You know and then you don't know and everybody loves to just like they just want to
watch you fail.
You know what I mean so that they can in their mind make themselves feel better.
And it's like everything you do is criticized.
And I just, I mean just with how that guy did it, it's just he did it on his terms.
You know it's like it's a, yeah I mean it's a lonely road.
I mean it's a lonely road and it's not just, it's not just, yeah I mean I'm nothing special.
I don't look at myself as anything, as anything special.
I did what I trained to do, I did what I put hope into people to do if they were in that
situation.
But you know it's just and it's, and honestly I think it's even worse today with everybody
being able to, to watch how you live your life.
Like more people have their eyes on you right?
Like you know you get a guy who goes out and deals with PTSD or whatever you struggle
in that day.
I mean I'm scared, I won't even go, like I remember when I call my doctors if I need
to go talk to somebody at therapist or something like I come up with a route of how I can
go in the back door so nobody sees me so that they can publicize, oh look, look there's
the code of going like there's something wrong with them.
You know what I mean?
Like it's just the standards are not, the grounds not equal now and it's just, yeah I mean.
But also like you get a choice every day is a choice and it's like am I going to take this
and try to get back and continue using the things that made me successful in that moment
and apply it somewhere else.
You know like the most of the film and I get is my daughters and whenever I'm trying to
help people as a firefighter, like it's been the best thing for me.
Like I'll, I'll never forget I, there was this guy and I, I talked about in the book,
there was this was one of the first times I felt, if I felt real again almost and I'd
help this guy and he didn't know who I was.
He didn't know me for what I'd done.
He didn't know my name.
I was just a guy in the uniform and there when he needed help and he like thanked me and
was so appreciative and I was like that feels good.
That feels good.
He didn't have any, any assumption of who I was or how I was.
You know what I mean? Like that guy just needed that moment and I could be there for
him and it shows me that I still got it.
That I still got it.
You know, because I mean you get off and like how long do you get out of the military?
We've talked about this.
How long do you get out of the military and you can still, you can still walk around with
this, I'm a warrior, but you haven't even had to get in the ring.
How long does that credibility still give you? I'm a warrior today.
Not I was a warrior, but I am a warrior.
How long do you get that credibility without getting in the ring?
You know?
And it's always a struggle.
That's always a struggle is, do I still have it?
Could I still do it?
Could I still perform at that level?
Because at the day you can't, you have to say I was a warrior.
And it's like, I mean you have to be tested.
And that's the one thing you talk to David Goggins, like that guy, he test himself all the
time.
He's always pushing it.
But that's like, yeah, I mean that's the struggle is it's like, could I still?
In the further I get away from that day in Afghanistan, you know, like I question myself
all the time of, did I?
How could I have done that that day?
But like today I don't, to tell you I can't even, you know, get myself to have an up
discipline to go work out.
What happened to me?
Do you know?
So when you get done, like how long did it take for the, for the damn ceremonies and the
round of interview, I remember you and I were talking on the phone, I forget when, but
you were talking about like you were on 60 minutes, you were on all the, like every, what
freaking lettermen, you did everything.
How long did that last four?
You know, like I was, I was like, it was really crazy all the way up to, I got it in September
15th of 2011.
Through December it was crazy.
I mean, I was on the view 60 minutes CBS Sunday morning, Fox all the time, I was on, obviously
Letterman, J. Leno, I mean, you got everything.
You got down down a list.
And it was, I mean, it was crazy.
It was crazy.
And it's still like speeches kept going, like, I mean, you still walk out places and
people recognize you and, you know, everybody's coming at you and wanting you and this and that.
And it was, it took me, I got hated it.
I was, I mean, I, when I hear people say, hey, I met you back in, but anytime I'm like,
when you meet me, and people was between 2011 and 2014, I apologize.
First, I said, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I was drunk the whole time.
I hated it.
I got hated it.
Like there would be times, it like, so I had a whole team around me.
The Marine Corps sent, like right after a day and now I'm starting to get in the middle.
The Marine Corps sent out like seven people to live with me, 24, 7.
What would they, what would they do with it?
I had a security guy that stayed in my house.
Like he stayed, I wasn't anywhere by myself for probably 90 days, at least 120 days.
And a guy live with me.
They sent in like, there were PR people, PAO people.
There was three of them, and you're 23 years old.
Twenty-three years old.
How was Ty and Steve?
There's, there's, there's interviews.
You go on the internet and there's interviews.
So they sent divids out, right?
So like the DOD, the Marine Corps, like combat camera people, like capturing this.
There are images of like, I, I refuse.
I'm like, no, it's not changing my life.
And I'm literally on a skid steer, like working under a skid steer and they're interviewing
me because they had to get something and I would not stop.
I'm like, no, you can follow me, but that's it.
So they would get up and follow me to go work at yards and stuff all day long.
But yeah, I mean, so I had all that.
And I mean, it was just like a, you know, my whole life changed.
And, and then, you know, it like everything was good.
It's like they built me up.
Like, I was, I couldn't do anything wrong.
And it's like when they got you to the top of the mountain, it was like the pinniat
that they raised up.
And then it was just like, here came the media, just as soon as you said something wrong.
Or, I mean, they were just, it's the gotchas.
And it was like, it was like, they just build you up to just try to smash you down, right?
And there was always this one reporter who was there.
They just always want to take me to task.
So it's like, you just got, you had to, you just start, you take these beatons, right?
And, and like, you know, like, people like, all do cares.
Who cares what they say about you?
Well, there's only one thing I've gotten this life.
And that's my name and reputation.
That's the only, like, when I die on my tombstone, it's not going to have any of my awards.
It's not going to have anything, but the day I was born and the day I died, and it's
going to say, myr at the top of it.
And that's what people are going to know.
But that's my brand.
And so I took it serious, like, when I would come home and I remember I landed one
night and I landed really late in Louisville.
And I was driving home and the career journal had released on the front page across the
state, because I remember I pulled into this gas station in my hometown.
And it was across the state.
And it was metal of this honor with my page on the front page of the state paper, right?
And they were trying to spread it everything that I had done.
And it was so bad that my friends got up.
Like they found out about it.
And they got up and they went and bought all the papers out in town.
And it was just always something man.
And it's just like, you just can't, there's no rhyme or reason to it.
You know, and it's just a, yeah, I mean, you get isolated.
So I get, I get what that guy said.
You know, what that guy did.
I mean, sometimes you just, you know, what if I can't help people and make a difference,
what am I doing?
What are you doing?
So you say the like the hype train lasted from September to December.
And I mean, at some point, does all the sudden, those seven Marines that were there
watching their remove all sudden, like their, their duties over, we got my, are done with
whatever he need to get done.
Yeah. And then like one day you wake up and like, they're alone.
Yeah. So we were supposed to go to, so we did at East Coast West Coast, and we're supposed
to Hawaii tour.
So it's like a, we were like a weekend in New York.
And then a week in California.
And then we were supposed to go to Hawaii for like a week to do press and all this,
right, see the bases and do the press on each coast.
And we went to New York.
Did that. So like I got the medal, came home.
And then the week after that, this was when all this started.
And by the time I hit California, I'm like, I'm out.
Like I, I'm on the plane to California from New York to California.
I said, I can't, I'm out.
I can't keep doing this.
Um, and so that was it.
Like, what was it that made you feel like you're like, the people just constantly talking
to you. I mean, was it just, you feel like you're put up on a pedestal.
We talked about this the first time you're on here.
I mean, basically everyone's saying, hey, good job.
I mean, you got to take this like, I am literally known for the biggest failure of my life.
Like you, you can't change the narrative to like, that's where people get wrongness
or like, well, like they just defy stuff in their head.
The facts are this like you can't change the facts.
All my team is dead.
Like I didn't get them out.
Whether it was rational or not.
Somebody can say, I'm gonna do 10,000 push-ups today and they're trying to break
against book a world record.
Nobody looks at him and says, well, you did, you did 500 in hour.
That's good enough.
They failed.
I failed.
My team answered dead.
Their families has, unanswered questions.
There's, there's four kids that don't ever see their dad.
And I'm getting preyed around the nation as a hero.
And it's like I look at all these other mental, like all the other mental alarmers guys.
And I'm away from them because, you know, I get, look, call carpentry.
I couldn't imagine what that kid got through.
Like you talk about a guy that's a warrior.
That kid's a warrior.
I don't have anything like that.
But I tell these guys that like, you guys did some bad-ass stuff.
You guys did bad-ass stuff.
And you got some guys that enjoy it with.
I come home and I ain't got anybody.
And it's literally the biggest failure of my life.
Now with that I've learned a lot.
And I can't change the narrative because it doesn't feel good.
And you started, you started feeling this way while you're flying from New York, California.
Like, I mean, I, I told the president that I couldn't accept the metal.
I wanted him to break it down to a Navy Cross.
I told him I couldn't accept the metal because like he said, you're, I'll never forget
President Obama told me that I was a hero.
And I said, if you think I'm such a hero, why don't you call my teammates up and get
their opinion, go let them know I'm a hero.
And I'm not.
And that's why like, that's why when these people are like trying to discredit or they're
trying to say, oh, you know, whatever, I mean, I can't argue with them.
I, you talk about getting my ass kicked.
Like I got a metal of honor for getting my ass kicked.
And so I just, I couldn't keep living this in the media of like, it just, it was a
hard thing like, I just wasn't there yet, right?
Now I don't do it about me.
I do it about my teammates, right?
Like I do it to try to show these lessons.
If, hey, you know, I come to this point to where I wasn't going to change it.
I wasn't going to be able to get away from it.
You know, it was like, and so how do I use it to make a difference?
How do I try to turn something so terrible into something good?
And that's what I ended up having to do.
But yeah, I got off like on the plane to, it was on the plane to L.A.
It was on the plane from New York to L.A.
And I remember looking at the girl who was running all my stuff.
She was, she's a rock star.
You talk about a girl who she is a rock star.
And I said, we were done.
We're done.
We'll finish these interviews here, but we're not going to lie.
And I'm going home.
And landed.
We did the stuff we had doing in L.A.
I flew home from there.
And then I was still doing events and still doing what people wanted me to.
I had a scholarship fund with the Marine Corps Scholarship Foundation.
I had this challenge to America where we would raise a million dollars to put kids
through college.
So like I was going out and speaking of events for that to like go into private dinners
to where somebody would write a huge check to the scholarship foundation.
So I was doing that.
And then yeah, no, I didn't have any, nobody taught me.
What I should do, what I shouldn't do, you know, it was like 23 years old just thrown
to this machine that, I mean, I didn't even have an Instagram at the time.
Right?
Like I didn't know what to do.
And so yeah, I mean, I did that.
I was on the speaking, like I did speaking with leading authorities.
Broke my book with being West in 2012.
And you know, like speeches kept going and like events and things like that.
And but you just kind of just kind of going with the flow of what's next, right?
And yeah, I didn't see it.
Was the Marine Corps when you said, hey, look, I'm not going to Hawaii.
Where I'm done.
I'm done.
Was the Marine Corps thinking or did anybody say, okay, hey, maybe we need to give Dakota some
help to get through this because he's got a massive amount of guilt over what happened.
Did anybody talk to you along those lines at all?
So the Marine Corps didn't know what to do either.
Right?
Like I was the first living Marine since Vietnam to receive the Medal of Honor.
So they weren't really schooled up on it either.
And there was one mistake that they made from the beginning is, and they tried to put it
together.
But when they put the narrative together, this is what opened us up to the media to the
guy who actually was the reporter that was actually the one that just was trying to
discredit everything.
And this was his heart.
This is a piece of your hand on.
But like in the first initial write up they had to do, right?
They put numbers in of how many people were rescued or say, whatever you want to call it.
And how many people I killed?
Which opened it up to numbers, which a doesn't matter, and b opens it up.
Right?
Because it doesn't really matter.
Did you kill 28 people or 72 people or 172 people?
It's like it doesn't really matter.
Wait, wait.
Did you save?
Because you can get a Medal of Honor for saving one person.
You can get a Medal of Honor for killing one person.
You can get a Medal of Honor for saving 100 or killing 100.
That's not what it's about.
But if they opened it up for that, all of a sudden they make it matter.
And that was where it messed up.
And I think they started the negative stuff started coming out.
And that was where.
But like the reporter even says in his article, there's an article out there about
how it was quite a few.
But he even states he goes, he states all these things, these discrepancies.
But he goes, I'm not saying he doesn't deserve it.
I actually read that article.
He said he says something along the lines of not that these actions alone don't fully
warrant the Medal of Honor.
So what the hell are you doing?
Yeah.
So it's those things that like, you know, I got like me and like you, you've had to talk
me down.
I got like me all I've known my whole life.
Like there's only one thing I'm good at.
And it's fighting.
It's all I know.
Like I have been, it's all I know.
You know what I mean?
Like it's the only thing that's made me successful anything is that I was willing to fight
and I was willing to work.
And you put those things in a spot where there's people who are poking.
It's not a good thing, right?
And so like I had to back up, you know, get myself together.
I was drinking too much like I was just trying to deal with all of it.
I mean, imagine walking into a room and everybody wants to talk to you about the worst
day of your life.
Like over and over and over and it's like you don't have to.
It's not about going home and not dreaming about it.
It's about I'm walking into rooms and I'm sitting here literally reliving it over and over
which is okay.
But I just think that like sometimes the worst day of my life is somebody else's entertainment.
I wish I would have pulled this quote major wittlessly.
He was at like a dinner and spoke at the dinner.
He sits down with his friends and the friends were talking.
They said something along the lines of he said exactly what you just said.
He said something along the lines of every time I talk about this, I go right back there
and I can't get away from it.
Yeah, like yeah, I mean, I just, I mean, look, I still today, I miss my guys.
I mean, you know, I just seen that one of my, like one of my teammates, his daughters,
you know, she's about to have a baby and you know, you just, it's just, it's crazy.
You know what I mean?
It's like, I get to sit here and enjoy my two beautiful daughters who are more than I ever
deserve.
I get to hang around such amazing people and I get to live a beautiful life and all these
things and, you know, it's just it's not, it's not a fair world, you know?
It's not.
That's, that was always a thing, you know, struggle for me to deal with and, you know,
and how do you give back, how do you continue to give back, right?
Like what?
Look, I mean, yeah, how do you get back, right?
So yeah, so like the Marine Corps left, they went on their own way.
Honestly, they kind of separated from me.
I didn't hear much from them again.
Probably two and a half, two and a half years.
I didn't hear much from them.
It was like mission complete for them.
It was like, hey, let's separate from this because I don't know if this thing's going to
be a hangar-nade or, you know, what's going to happen?
Isn't it weird, you know, you said earlier, like, for this guy, you said it's worse today,
right?
Because everyone, there's, you know, word travel so fast and all this stuff.
But you would think, man, like, that least people understand the concept of survivor guilt
and post-traumatic stress, like at least we understand those things.
And yet, it seems like, you know, if I, when someone goes through something like this,
you've got to like give them some support, you know?
Yeah, yeah, I mean, yeah.
But you know, like, how do you do that when everybody looks at you like a hero?
I mean, how many times have you been in a situation with a group of people knowing them
well that you all, you're all scared as it gets?
And, but it's like, as long as you keep your poker face on, you could literally be the
thing that breaks them, where everybody's going to be like, no, you just confirmed their
fears or you, you are the thing that keeps them going.
And, you know, I, I just always took it as, this is my, I got the medal.
And that's my punishment for letting my teammates get killed.
This is my punishment to be paraded in front of all the people as a hero, the exact opposite
of what I am.
And that was, that was my punishment.
That was what the universe or God, whoever you want to think about, this was, this was
what I got for failing that day.
And that was, that was kind of how it was, you know.
And so like any time I got to give a speech or talk to people and tell them the realities
of it, you know, I just wanted to know that hey, look, you can get your ass kicked and
get back up from it.
And that's what the story is.
My story is not a story of a guy who is some high speed, low drag.
You know, my story is a story of a guy who got his ass kicked and his hat is ass kicked,
his whole life and has, who lives a life of success.
He has found a way to make success out of a shit ton of failures.
And that's kind of, that's kind of what it is, you know.
But yeah, the Marine Corps went away and then I started hiring my own people.
He was a hired new old people, kind of people.
So like I had agents, right?
So I had a book agent, a book and movie agent with ICM Sloan Sloan Harris.
It was a great guy.
I had, you know, obviously with the speaking agency, I had security people like that
I would keep on me and not really for anything other than to protect me from myself, right?
Like, because you know, I walked in, I mean, I would walk in somewhere and like, we'd
be drinking and somebody would say something, I would hit him.
You know what?
That's a lawsuit now.
You know what I mean?
I had, you know, assistance, I mean, you know, people who were kind of handled me to
get me what I need to be.
I mean, it was, it was a crazy, it was a crazy time.
I mean, it was crazy.
And that was all the way up until probably 2014.
And then, and then I just, I kind of just, I was like, I just want to get away from it.
And I started backing off.
And you know, I was so fortunate that I've been with Toyota since 2011.
And you know, you talk about Ed Loutkiss and you talk about Don Esman and you talk about,
like, all these incredible people inside of Toyota, like these people, like met me and
they've mentored me the whole way.
Like you talk about sticking with me through thick and thin and believing in a cause of,
of, you know, of helping veterans and just, like you take them out of, out of, you know,
if I had to met them in 2012, there's no time where I'd be.
So those guys were kind of helping you guy, guy, do you through all this?
And former Marines.
So Don Esman was a Marine.
He was a Vietnam pilot and Vietnam.
He was a Metavac pilot.
So he's got over 900 missions shot down Silver Star recipient.
I mean, but he was, he was the, I think it was the COO of Toyota.
And we, you know, I got in contact with them and they brought me on.
They, they got what this program called hiring or heroes that I work with and helping veterans
get back to work and, but it was more personal for them.
It wasn't a business thing for them.
Like they took me in and, you know, Ed Lakis, his mom and dad both were in World War II and
Marines.
And so it was just like, it was crazy how I got there, Tune.
And they, you know, gosh, you talk about 2011, 2012 Dakota.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, because that when you were the hand grenade that the Marine called
this scared you were.
Yes, you, you, you, you take those people out of my life, you know, John Lisco.
And they didn't have to do it.
And, you know, you just find these people.
Yeah, you know, when you say these people, like, helped you out, there's always people
that ask me, hey, how can we help veterans?
And you know, it's really easy to say, like, give to charity, which is awesome for sure.
But in terms of what is helpful and what you're talking about is like, actually form relationships
with people so that you can see where you can help them and you can provide them the help
and support that they need.
Yeah.
There's a big difference between me right in a check and saying, okay, I feel better
about myself because I wrote a check to whatever foundation, which again, that's good.
But if you want to go next level, form some relationships with some people and look,
veterans have, especially like you, like me when I was young, right?
You have no, I didn't really have any experience in the world, right?
I was institutionalized.
It was just, I just knew the military, that's me, that's my life.
So if I would have gotten out when I was 23, 24 years old, I would know what to do.
So someone that's a civilian, that's a little older.
If you form a relationship with someone and look, I can tell you, it's not going to be
easy.
I can almost guarantee that being trying to mentor a guide 23 year old, the color,
there's going to be challenges like it's like having a free continued boy.
That's old enough to drink and has money.
Yeah.
Yes.
And that was it, right?
You know, you talk about Ed, I mean, I go back, keep talking about Ed Larkis and
you talk about a guy who just, I mean, he was like a second dad, you know what I mean?
Like he, you know, it's wife Karen, just, I mean, I actually, I just call her mom, you know?
And you talk about Ed, you know, they went out of their way and I was so lucky.
But you know, that's the one thing that I have to say, if I've ever been good at, you know,
all the way growing up, I've always been able to find, um, great.
Like I've always had this way of finding great people and knowing who good people were,
who I should try to be like, I was really good at figuring those out and making them believe
in me, right?
Like I was, that that's the only, that's the only power I really have is, is that I can,
I know who's, who's really good in the room and who's, who's, who I should be like.
And I find a way to get them to help get me there.
And then always having great mentors, I've had that from day one.
I've been, I've been so fortunate to have that, right?
And that's what's got me, I mean, even still today, even still today, that's the pieces
that keep me going and keep getting me better and keep helping me grow and learn and develop.
You know, and that's, that's been my key to success or whatever you call it to, to still being
here, right?
Is those people, you know, I'm just a, I'm just a product of the people who are around me.
They should get the credit for any success as I have, you know, and that's how it is.
So when you, when you, in the book into the fire, you, you, by me, you had the lowest
of low points, right?
You're in your freaking truck and you're, you basically try and kill yourself, but luckily
someone pulled around out of the, pulled around out of the chamber.
So your, your weapon wasn't chambered.
Round wasn't chambered.
Then you get the metal.
Then you're on like a, there's a little lift, you're getting the metal, you're getting
all this attention.
Do you go back down to a low point at some point?
Yeah.
I mean, I mean, I think, like if, yeah.
I mean, it's, it's always like a, it's like a roller coaster.
I mean, I don't know what it calls it.
The end I mean, like there's some days I wake up and I'm just like, me out, I don't even
get out of bed.
I don't even get out of bed.
And why I don't know.
But yeah, I mean, after I got the metal, I was in the lowest of the lows.
I mean, it was the lowest of lows.
I mean, it was just, I would literally, like, I'll never forget this one time, who was actually
going to my speaking agency.
Well, you, you talk about the day the, the president called me to come have a beer with
him.
Like, I was standing, I can remember, I was standing, speaking to some Marines.
I won't say where, but I was speaking to some Marines at an event.
And I, I was hammered.
Like, it was probably 9, 10 a.m. in the morning.
And I'm not talking about, like, buzzed.
I'm talking about, like, Dakota was drunk.
I would get up in the morning before interviews, like the six, five, six a.m. interviews.
And I'd be taking shots on the way to the studio.
And like, I was standing there and I'll never forget, like, whenever they said for me to
come over and have a drink.
So the, the girl who used to take care of me, her name is Janette.
Janette looked at me in, like, her face, like, melted.
She's like, I hope they don't give you sobriety tests before you go in.
Like, we have to sober you up.
She literally started making me pound waters to try to get me sober enough to go into the
White House.
And I mean, that was how I lived.
Like, I just, I couldn't, I could, I hated, I couldn't take it, you know, and I mean,
I could, but I just, I just hated what it was about.
It wasn't about the work or about the workload.
It was just I was literally just living this nightmare.
And, you know, there were rock stars.
And, but yeah, I mean, how was this shit, Joe?
So how long did you stay in that mode for?
Probably until, like, 2014?
And then what happened in 2014?
Did you realize something, what happened?
I just, I state, like, I kind of, I kind of seen that, like, I need to get my shit together.
You know, I was going out and I kind of had a turn of, like, I, look, I wasn't going to be
able to change it.
Like, I wasn't going to be able, I realized I wasn't going to be able to out drink it.
And, um, how do I turn into something positive, right?
And I, I just, I had this dream to be able to, to my ass, me one time, they're like,
what do you want to do?
And I'm like, I honestly, I just want to change the world.
And I know it sounds crazy, right?
It sounds so crazy.
But when I, when I looked real deep into, why have I done, like, the stuff I didn't
have can withstand?
You know, like, I didn't do it for me.
I didn't do it.
The thing I did was ultimately down, of trying to make the world that I was part of,
just a little bit better.
Like, like, like, anytime I handed out soccer balls to the kids, or I went out front
of the gate, you know, I was just trying to make their day a little bit better.
Show them a different perspective.
When I was, when I was taking a shot, now I was trying to take a guy out, or I was
going in and they were asking for help.
And hey, we need security in this, in this village to help us out the Taliban's doing this,
so that I literally just wanted to make the world just a little bit better.
And if, if that's truly my core purpose, why can do that here?
It's no different.
Well, one of the things that I've been talking about in a bunch of different ways lately
is this idea of being caught in, like, an echo chamber and a feedback loop, and you hear
it in the social media world because if you're a super liberal person, you just see a bunch
of conservatives stuff, happens in a leadership position because if you're in a leadership position,
and you have an idea and everyone just is a yes man, then says, yep, yep, yeah, you're
great boss.
That sounds like a great idea and you go forward, you're only hearing, you don't get any
other input.
And it happens to people's mentalities too, where, you know, they have a bad day, and then
they think, well, today was so bad and tonight's going to be bad too, and then tomorrow
was going to be bad, and I don't, they get caught in this echo chamber of reinforcing the
same thoughts over and over again.
And that's fine if they're good thoughts, but when it's a negative thought, and just like,
you know, when you do feedback with a microphone into an amplifier, right?
It just turns into a freaking squeal and you can't get out of it until you either shut
that thing off or you get that microphone away.
So, you know, it sounds like you were in that mode, but then you thought to yourself,
you know, it's pretty, what you've just said of like realizing, hey, I can't change it,
why did I do it, what can I do to move forward?
Like that's a huge step away from, it's, it takes a lot of strength to break out of
this negative attitude.
And what sucks is you meet people and they're freaking trapped in there.
And it's, it's, I don't know, I don't know if you can actually manually, I don't know
if I can manually go to you and say, hey, you're in an echo chamber right now and get
you out of it.
Yeah.
I think sometimes I think it may be that the person has to do that for themselves.
Well, I always say like you, you can either like sometimes you find yourself in the middle
of nowhere and the middle of nowhere and sometimes in the middle of nowhere you find yourself.
And yeah, I mean, I think what's even more dangerous is when you start drinking your own
coolly, right?
Like when you're not looking at everybody else and kind of getting a feeling off of
it and then you surround yourself with a bunch of yes people like and then you, and then
you only get that you start drinking your own cool light.
I mean, what happens?
Like, yeah, you can live off of in a survival situation drinking your own urine.
But what happens if you drink it five times over?
It's dead, your dead.
And I think that's dangerous.
Well, actually, it's the same mechanism.
It's just a different, it's just a one positive, one negative.
If you go and just positive positive positive positive, you'll spend out and you'll think
you can't be stopped and you can think you can do nothing wrong.
If it's negative, negative, negative, you don't think you can do anything right.
And the reality is for everybody.
When you're some right, we do some wrong.
We make some mistakes.
We have some wins.
We have some losses.
We move forward.
We take a couple steps back.
We move forward again.
But people that think, oh, every step I take is going to move me forward and everyone's, you
know, everyone's following me because I'm awesome or nothing I can do can move me forward.
It's not, that's not the way life is.
It's not one or the other.
It's both.
And people get stuck there in one or the other.
I think the negative one is the one that looked a positive one.
It seems like what happens with the positive one is when you fall off that train, you
at least you fall onto, you have a little distance to fall and you're going to be okay.
You have like enough room to pull your reserve.
When you're at the bottom, you're on reserve and you burn in.
And that's what I was on, right?
It was just everything was negative around me.
The alcohol, I mean, everything was negative, right?
I mean, I'm waking up literally talking about my teammates death.
And everything was negative.
I mean, it was, and I, I just had to pull myself out of it.
I don't know of one situation that just like boom, smacked me out of it.
I will say this like ultimately the, one of the biggest changing points in my life was
when I had my daughter.
That was, that was whenever the drinking quit.
Like that was whenever I took it.
And I said, I said, you know what, it's not about me.
I know I'm not the best person in the world.
And you know, I, but I'll tell you this, my daughter didn't choose to come in this world.
She didn't choose to come in.
The circumstances that she came in under.
And it is my obligation to ultimately give her and wake up every day and strive to be
the father that that young girl deserves.
And that's it.
It really is that simple.
And so that was whenever the drinking just went to a halt.
But then there was a whole suit problems after that right of now I'm not dealing with my
anxiety or my issues with drinking now they're coming to light.
So you know now it was kind of having to face the true reality of this not not not taking
the band aid.
I mean drinking is no different than taking.
It feels, I mean, it's just a, it's just another, it's just another form of it right.
And so that was a whole other problem.
But I got to look at that little girl and like that was that is, you know, sailor and
athlete are by far.
I need them way more than they could ever need me.
You know what I mean?
Like, and they change my life for the better and they still do every day.
Because ultimately that's what the man that I am, I have to be a good man because I want
my daughters to find good man and I want them to know what a good man looks like.
And I want if they start dating shitty guy someday it's probably because I'm a shitty guy.
I want to set the example to them of hopefully what they strive to go to go find and
marry someday.
And I have to wake up and be that.
That's weird from being in the military.
The perspective for me because I was a young, unlisted guy.
I was going to say young dumb.
And yes, I was a young dumb and that's the guy.
And the more I moved up in the ranks all of a sudden you're like responsible for people.
And those was no overnight like transition for me.
Because I was enlisted and then I became an officer and I was a junior officer.
But it wasn't like I was an officer now and now I need to or I'm in charge of this training
event.
And so I need to know it wasn't like an overnight thing.
But I realized that hey, all of these guys are counting on me to do my job to make good
decisions to give them the support that they need.
That's all on me.
All on me 100%.
And so slowly over time, I started acting more and more like a freaking responsible human
instead of like a complete freaking savage when I was freaking younger to you guys.
So I just got, you know, I just grew.
And then obviously, yeah, when I had kids, it's like, oh, now there's people that also
rely on me 100%.
For everything.
And they're looking at me as an example of how they should be acting and what they should
be looking for.
Yeah.
So you did you stop drinking like, yeah, I mean, cold turkey?
I did.
When sailor, when sailor was born, I pretty much, I mean, I pretty much cut it out to
cold turkey.
Yeah, I mean, I, I mean, I was like, yeah, I mean, I was, I had to, I mean, I was, I was in a
custody battle first off.
So how do the gate?
I mean, I wasn't even, I mean, I wasn't, yeah, I mean, yeah, I wasn't
in there when sailor was born.
And I got to meet her like three months later.
And so, you know, with the custody battle, it was, look, I'll take 90% of it, my fault.
Mambras didn't get along.
She went back to Alaska.
It didn't work out, right?
And so I wasn't there for the, the, the birth.
And so finally, after three months of fighting and all the stuff that people do,
right, and I look, I'm sure I call as my amount of it.
So let me say that upfront, I'm definitely not an easy person to live with.
You know, I finally got to meet her.
And my out-kniver forget like I flew up, I flew up on an airplane.
So first off after I seen, realized that sailor was born, I went.
It was on the, it was on the 23rd, or she was born on the 23rd.
And so Christmas that year was 20, Christmas Eve was on a Thursday.
And Christmas is on Friday that year.
And I went up that Saturday as soon as the store's open back up.
And I, I went ahead and bought like all of her stuff to have my house.
I didn't know when I'd get to see her or anything like that.
If she'd ever even get to come, they can tuck you.
But like, I was at that.
So I was going to be a dad.
And I had no clue about a change of diaper anything.
And then I went to this month long, it's like an online nanny school.
And I became a certified nanny and different care specialists.
So I was like doing these classes.
I was doing these classes, right?
Like of how to swaddle, like learning about all these things that kids do, right?
And I mean, I just never wanted to.
It wasn't my daughter's fault.
So like I never wanted to not be what she needed if she needed it.
And so like I need to spend my mind set was I need to, you know, I'm a dad.
And I need to try to, if I, even if I'm not with her, I need to be training to do something
to be able to, to give her the life that she deserves.
And man, three months into it, I got to major.
And so I fly up there.
And what I would do is I would fly to Alaska and we're like, I'm going to put this
training to the kids.
Yeah, it says like I had all this stuff like man, like I knew like the five essays of like,
you know, how to get a child to like, you know, to calm down, like all this stuff.
I was a master.
I had this like little baby doll that I used to swaddle practicing, right?
Yeah, crazy.
I know.
So I fly up there.
And so I would fly to Alaska every other weekend.
And I would raise her for four days out of a hotel room, a three month old.
And from Kentucky.
And so I would go up there and I got her man.
The first time I laid eyes on her, that was it.
Like I got on the plane coming home after those four days.
And I just say, hey, I'm getting rid of everything and Kentucky.
And even if I just have to work at McDonalds, I'm going to Alaska and I'm going to raise
this kid.
I don't want anything else.
I don't want another life.
I don't care if I just, if I just have to live in a car park on a side road, I'm going
to raise this kid.
And I am going to, I'm going to be the best dad that I can be.
And that's why I started figuring out right.
I went home and literally started looking at assets about how to close everything down and
leave.
And yeah.
So that was kind of, that's kind of that.
And I just go up there.
And then after that, you know, like a little ways into it, we stopped fighting.
And remember, it's still decided to get married.
And we got married and you know, had another kid and then went to shit.
And all this stuff, you were,
this is like tabloid material.
Yeah, all tabloid material too.
Yeah.
So you, yeah.
Like if you look at the tabloids now, like they don't refer to me as a metal of honor
recipient, they refer to me as Bristol Palin's X.
So you guys get married, which, you know, you're doing the best you can, you know,
people do what they're going to do, you're trying to figure things out.
Yeah, I mean, we tried looking.
Bristol's not a bad person.
You know, she's, she's the mother of my children.
She gave me the most beautiful things in the world.
Like my kids are healthy.
They're beautiful.
They are, they're the best thing that I have.
And I owe her for that.
I owe her for for all that.
You know, I'm not an easy person to live with.
Like let me tell you, I'm not.
So yeah, so we got, we got our beautiful kids.
So where did you move?
Once you got, once you guys got married.
So I, we, we got married and I literally packed up two suitcases and left
for Alaska and I never came home.
I just moved in with her.
And I would fly to the States, just as I was on, going to give speeches across
them, you know, Canada, lived up there for a year and then we moved to Austin.
And how you doing, like at that point, are you starting to sort of process
everything that happened or you starting to be like, okay, these people are calling
me a hero, but I have an opportunity to be able to explain to them my perspective of it.
When you start to kind of put this together in a way that was more manageable for you.
No, I mean, it's still not, right?
Because everybody wants to argue with me.
You know, it's like, no, no, like understand I'm a failure.
Oh, no, you did everything.
You could, like shut up.
You know what I mean?
No, it's still that way.
You know, it's just, no, it's still not.
It's still not back.
You know, people still, they hold me in this regard that I'm like, that I'm something, that
I'm something that I'm not, I'm no different than anybody else.
You know, as I said to something, you said you, I was listening to your podcast actually.
When you were saying something along lines of, hey, you know, I, I received the metal of
honor, but I don't want to let that define me.
I don't want that to be like the thing that I'm known for.
And I started thinking to myself, you and me know how freaking completely random war is.
Like, you don't know what the hell is going to happen.
There's nothing to wait to predict anything.
You could have done that deployment.
That mission could have got scrubbed for 10,000 reasons at night.
It could have gone in the Taliban could have not been there.
There's like a million things.
And so really there's a role of the dice that you were in this situation, the way it
went down, you didn't get killed.
You know, it's just, it's so random that if you did hang your hat on that one thing, it's
like, that's like saying, hey, that's like, that's like, I won the loto.
Yeah.
So you should, you know, that means I'm smart or whatever.
Like, you know, it's, you can't let me pick your numbers for all your body.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I was thinking about that.
Like, you can't let it define you because if you do let it define you, then you're defining
yourself on the fact, it's like, it's like defining yourself on, you know, how tall you are.
Yeah.
It's like, hey, you know, that's just how tall you are.
There's nothing you could do about that.
Now look, obviously you took actions that were conscious decision to go doing what you
had to do.
But you're right in the fact that if you let that one thing define you, you're hanging
your hat on something that's kind of random.
Well, exactly, right?
But it's also, I mean, it's also like, like, what if, what if like a fighter gets in the ring
and he gets a win?
I mean, whether like he got a knockout and it was one hit and it was a whiz.
I mean, are those hits lucky, right?
I mean, you know, I mean, like, could you, can you really walk into a ring and say you're
going to like, and knock people?
You know what I mean?
Like, some of that is the same, right?
Some of it is this guy, just, if you've, if you didn't break this or you know what I mean?
Like, that's why the games are played, right?
It's why football teams are not fantasy.
You know what I mean?
Like, that's why the game is played.
And so like for me, it was like, yeah, that day, that day out, like, if it comes down
to fighting, like, I fought myself.
I'll say that.
I fought as hard as I could.
But that was one day in my life.
What about the rest of them?
You know, like, that day's done.
That's behind me.
Well, what's next?
Right?
Like, I mean, I was in a gunfight four days later that I felt like was worse than that one.
You know what I mean?
Obviously I lost my teammates with sucked, but as far as like, I mean, the next one was
was a harder one for me to pick out than the first one, right?
And nobody knows about that.
I mean, I still kept fighting.
We've gotten a ton of fights after that.
And so like, you just can't be defined by that.
You know, your only is good as, as your next step bad.
And it's like you can't, you can't let your failures define you.
And you can't let your successes define you.
Both of them are nothing more than moments in time.
Yeah.
That's, that was kind of my, I don't want to call it a setup, but like, it's one thing.
That's right.
And even though you feel like, oh, I failed that night.
So yeah, that was one, that was one thing.
I did.
And so to say, you don't want to define yourself by receiving this one award.
It's also you can't define yourself by the fact that that day you didn't win.
Exactly, but it still doesn't change the results of the day, right?
Like, and at the end of the day, those of all taught me valuable lessons.
You know, you can't, like, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and,
hear me out on this, but like life is nothing more than like a, uh, and you're gonna laugh when
I've defined it.
When I say this.
Life is nothing more than for doing.
You know, like, you know, like an Halloween, they have those rough, good start.
Okay, scary houses, right?
Or those those those those whatever those houses that they talked about.
On the house.
On the house, right?
Calm scary houses.
Whatever.
So life is like, that's life.
After you've walked through that heart house once, does it get you again?
No.
So that's life, right?
Like life is full of these things that are not real that scare us because we've never seen
them or we've never seen them in that place or whatever, right?
We wouldn't expect them coming there.
So it kind of shakes us for a second.
But you got one or two options.
After you've seen it, you can either, okay, I got it.
You're there.
You got me on that one.
But if I walk through this house again, you don't have me, right?
And that in that life, like, that's life, right?
And you know, so like that day, I got the cool parties is like, that's my, that day's
my kryptonite.
I'm not going to say that I could never see anything worse because, obviously it could
always be worse.
But man, at 21, 21, I got to walk through one of the scariest damn houses that life could
throw at me.
I'm going to tell you right now, I got, I got to sit here and look death.
Right in the eyes, I never thought, I, I never thought I would make it out.
I got to look at that.
So I don't have to worry about every day's a bonus day for me.
I didn't think I was going to live past September 8, 2009.
I got to sit here and see the very best of human beings.
I got to see the very worst.
I got to see what I would do if somebody had a gun to my head.
I got all these things out of the way in one day that most people go through their whole
life wondering what they would do.
You know, I got to know that at 21, what do I have to worry about, going into the next
house?
You know what I mean?
I got my ass beat, all of it.
You're not going to beat my ass worse than that.
So I don't have to worry about it.
You know, the most dangerous guy in the room is the guy that doesn't care to lose.
I'm not going to tell you.
I don't care to lose.
You know, and that's my kryptonite.
That's like my power or whatever, right?
That's my, and I'm so fortunate to have gotten that out of the way at 21 years old because
it's allowed me to go live the life that I've lived, right?
I get to, I mean, I jump out of airplanes.
I fly airplanes.
I fly helicopters.
I do it.
And it's like, I get to do it because, and I get to go talk to people about what it's
like.
To go tell people, it's all good.
You can do this, right?
And so it's kind of a, it's good.
It's a good thing.
So where does like, I know a while ago, you know, you had like anxiety.
Yeah.
What even is that?
What does that feel like?
What happens?
Where does it come from?
What do you know about it?
So I didn't even know, I didn't even know what, I didn't even know a had anxiety.
I guess like you just kind of get used to feeling this way.
And I, he got so bad, like after I moved to Alaska when the drinking stopped.
That, like, I would, I would wake up throwing up.
I would grind my T-Sohar, like, my teeth on the back are caps.
And like, I would, I have been here, and I would knock my teeth off with been here.
Like I'd knock them off by grinding my teeth.
I'm out of wake up and I'd be throwing up.
I would be sweating in bed, crying my eyes out.
Like just can't sit down, can't, like I would try to run it off.
I can't run it off, can't lay down.
Like, it just, it was like, what's wrong with me?
You know what I mean?
What is wrong?
I don't even know what's going on.
And I find out this is this an anxiety attack.
And you know, I just, I started dealing with it.
I had a real bad anxiety attack, but I didn't want to go to the hospital because like,
the VA gave me the option of the VA gave me an option of, I call them up.
Okay.
I call them up and I'm like, hey, I need to, I kind of just need to see somebody.
And they're like, what do you have a case manager?
I said I don't, like, I live in Alaska, I don't.
And they're like, okay.
Now I'm a metal runner recipient.
I mean, I've got pretty high status in the VA, like as far as the statuses they have, right?
Like they have these old levels or whatever.
I imagine.
So I'm going to be pretty high up there, yeah.
So like I ask them, I'm like, I just need to see somebody like maybe to give me like
some blood pressure medicine or something to help me get this, just get through this.
I just need to get something to get through it.
I don't want any, like, I'm not asking for Zanxes or whatever, right?
And they go, well, if you don't have a case manager, then we'll have to get you one of those.
And then after you get and seen with the case managers, then what we'll do is that case manager
will get you a doctor and then after you meet with a doctor, then they'll get you to a psychiatrist
and then you'll be able to get some help for it.
I said, well, how long is that going to be?
Probably four to six weeks.
And I said, I don't have four to six weeks.
And the woman on the phone, she said, well, you can always come check your in yourself
into the psych ward.
And I was like, I don't need that.
There's no way.
These are my options.
And so I called, I called one of my buddies and he knew a doctor and the doctor was like,
they gave me like some blood pressure medicine that usually some people take for anxiety.
So I were taking it.
And then fortunately, they sent me this thing called the alpha stem.
And it clips on your ears.
And when they sent it to me, I wouldn't even open it.
I was so mad that somebody sent this to me because I was like, you really think, this
is what you think my level of anxiety is.
You think it's a joke?
I'm picture in the thing that the time travel machine that Kip puts on his head in the
Napoleon Dynamite, something like that.
So finally one day, I'm sitting there and I've got anxiety.
And it feels like your chest is just like something sitting on your chest.
Does it come from like, thoughts?
No, I don't know.
Is it a physical thing?
Is it a mental thing?
It's a physical.
Like you'll feel like you're having a heart attack.
And you could be watching the freaking cartoons with your kids.
I'm happy to be just sitting in my truck.
Sitting in your truck, nothing, just playing.
And all of a sudden you feel this.
Yeah, I can feel it coming.
Is it the same as a panic attack?
Same thing.
But do you feel like you're worried about something consciously?
Or I think it lives in your subconscious?
You know, like, you can't know.
I mean, I would be fine.
And then like it just all of a sudden hits.
And it's like, it's like, oh gosh, like you can feel it coming.
And you just, how do I get rid of this?
And it's, I think it's a subconscious piece, right?
Like, that's why like it comes out mostly when I'm sleeping.
Because I can't consciously control what I'm thinking about.
And when I go to sleep, whatever in your brain needs to come out is coming out.
Are you dreaming?
Or you have a nightmare?
Yeah.
And the nightmare is like trigger this.
Usually.
When the cure for it, because you said the case advisor would send you to a doctor,
the doctor would send you to a psychiatrist.
So ultimately, is that what they're looking to do to you is give you some kind of
psychiatric medicine.
You know, X-axis, clotipin.
And these are things that like mellow you out.
Yeah, or something.
Allegedly.
And get you, get you addicted to them.
Yeah, that was on me.
Because they're going to numb the pain.
They're going to numb the thoughts that are causing this stuff.
Yeah.
And, yeah, I mean, it's like, you get on that.
It's a slope, right?
It's a slope of, you know, why have you started taking that?
Then, you know, you start getting depressed, right?
Because I mean, imagine, you know, that was always my problem.
Like, if I took clotipin or anything like that,
well, you have a hangover the next day.
And then I didn't feel like working out.
So then I don't feel like working out.
So then it's like, you just, it's like a, it's like this slope of just.
Right.
Then, you know, when you, when you get depressed and you start, you know,
you can't work out.
You don't feel your normal self.
Then you're like, why I'm broken.
And it's just like this downward slope of just.
It's like, hey, you know what, like, I don't, I'm not scared to look at it.
I'm not scared to look my demons in the eyes.
But like when it turns into something like mentally,
I can deal with it.
It's when it starts coming out physically.
Is it starts, is it starts getting you, right?
So, so back to the earlobe freaking machine.
So, so that's it.
So the alpha stem.
I finally put it on.
And it would like melted away.
It would like melted away.
So you start feeling it, go hook it up.
I'd hook it up 20 minutes at night before I went to bed.
That's sleep better.
Yeah, it was awesome.
And then, and then I met this person.
She worked with the guys out at Fort Bragg.
I met her one and she's like, hey, you need to try this.
It's called a Stella gangley in block.
Actually, a seal.
Sean Mulvaney, Dr. Mulvaney.
I'm like, come on.
Everybody's promised me the world with this stuff.
She's like, go to it.
SGB.
And so I fly out.
I was at rock bottom again.
Like, it was just frustrating that I can't operate.
How often are you having these anxiety attacks twice a week?
And they're freaking crippling.
I'm talking about throwing up in the floor.
Like, I'm talking about throwing up in the floor.
Like, I'm talking about how long are you last for?
Uh, an hour, 45 minutes.
And you know, I deal when they're going to hit.
No.
And there's no going back to sleep after them.
Right? Like, there's no.
Yeah.
And I'll never forget my daughter looked at me one time.
We were actually on the road.
Me and her traveling.
And so like, I would be scared.
Like, I never liked the kids to sleep in the bed with me because I never wanted my daughters to see me like that.
And there were there were a lot of nights that I was sleeping my car in the best by parking lot.
Probably about three years ago, four years ago, three years ago.
I was sleeping the best by parking lot because I didn't want anybody to see me see me like that.
If I felt like I was getting anxiety.
And you, you still married at this time?
Yeah.
And is there any like, how's that going?
Just like you guys are trying to figure it out. Yeah.
It's just what it is.
She can't. I mean, she doesn't.
You know, she's, we got three kids and, you know, she's watching me.
How could you be married to somebody like that?
How could you be married to somebody who, you know, you look at.
And like, you don't understand their anxiety.
So like, you're kind of like, what's wrong with this person?
You know what I mean? Like, this guy's just this week.
You know what I mean? It's like, it's not something.
It's hard to understand, you know?
And I never forget like me and say they were traveling.
We were actually at a Marine base.
And I'd been speaking to a bunch of Marines.
And she was with me.
And she was having to sleep in the bed with me at, you know, on the road.
And I woke up and I was, I was throwing up and I was sitting on a side of bed crying.
And like, I, I knocked two of my teeth off my, and they came off.
And like, she, I honestly forgot she was in the bed.
And, um, man, she got up and like, she like,
She like, patting me on the back and she said, uh,
It's okay, daddy. Like, I know you're a good daddy.
And, uh, man, it was, that was, that was a tough one, right?
You know, like, it was just, uh, and so I, um,
Then I was like, I got to do something different.
You know, like, I was getting the still like angley and blocks quite a bit.
So you, I cut you off or whatever, but so how was that first one that you and got?
The needle went in. So I was laying on this hot, this bed.
So the, the process is that they stick a needle into some part of your neck brain.
Well, so your neck. So like they do it under ultrasound.
And like a stick this needle on and, and it like, um, it's a block.
Um, and it goes on your, it goes on one of your nerves.
And, um, it's like a reset.
And, man, as soon as before the needle was even out,
I remember I was looking at, I was like literally looking at the ceiling.
And I didn't want anybody to talk because I got, I couldn't believe that,
that, that I could feel this way.
Like, there was like the world, the way to the world was off my shoulders.
Like the anxiety was gone. Like it was, like I didn't know you could feel like that.
And I was just, the next morning, like I was taking a shower.
And I was, I caught myself like laughing and singing in the shower.
And I was like, this is like amazing.
And, um, so I did that and that worked for a while.
What's it blocking?
So I guess what it does is, is you have, you have, um, this is how I was explaining to me was,
as you have your automated, um, basically like where you automatically do things like breathing.
Things you don't have to think about, blinking.
And then you have your, um, where you have to like your manual side of your, your nervous system.
Right? Like we're okay. I want to pick this cup up.
I have to think about that and do it.
So fighter flight is supposed to be, I recognize you as a threat.
You're a threat now. So I recognize that.
Now I go into fighter flight.
And what happens is, is when we've been in that mode for so long,
your mind just starts to adapt and it puts it over into the automated side.
And so that's where you get these guys who are automatically back in that fighter flight.
Um, they automatically go back there because their brain has, has shoved in that system.
So, so you're kind of like a, imagine with your, your cell phone.
If it's running wrong or an apps running wrong, what do you do? You reboot it.
Well, that's what this block does. It doesn't really shut it down,
but it kind of helps you reboot your system.
And that's Dr. Muldany was one of the first guys to ever give this for PTSD.
And what he did was, is he went, he was, I guess he was at this clinic.
And he was seeing all these symptoms that, uh, pregnant women were having, um,
when they were, when they were going through pregnancies.
And they were giving this, I guess it for some piece of it.
And he's like, well, this is kind of, these symptoms are kind of, let me try it for this.
And like, it's been huge.
I'm saved. So, I mean, saving lives like a lot of the guys get it, you know?
And, um, it helped me for a long time.
Yeah, I got, I got, I got some people that have been reaching out to me to talk about it.
Maybe you have some of the experts on here to kind of explain it.
So more people can understand it. And, uh, and actually when they approached me,
I said, well, I got a friend that had it. And I actually asked you.
And I said, did you get that thing? You said you opened as an, how was it?
You said it's freaking awesome.
Awesome.
So that kind of opened my mind up and said, all right, you know,
for the virus can help spread the word on this, then let's do it.
Yeah, and, you know, like, all these things are, like, let me say this.
Like, like, the, the alpha stem, it was, it was great.
Worked great, right? Uh, the still like, angley and black.
Like, all these things, they work. Um, it's just a matter of how long they work, right?
Like, the alpha stem, I'd have to use it pretty much every day, right?
The still like angley and black. I mean, sometimes I would go six months without getting
one. Sometimes I'd have to go three months. You know, it just, it's about the longevity of how long they
worked. You know, and, and honestly, none of it's going to fix it.
You have to fix it yourself. Like, these are all, I call them, uh, they're kind of like flash
bangs. Um, they're, they're the flash bangs of life. It's going to, it's, you're going to
throw that flash bang in there. And it's going to give you some time to get on the
offense and work there on the defense. Um, right? So you better make you better fix it
of whatever's causing it. You better get in there and start doing work as soon as as soon as
as soon as it, as soon as you get it. Right? It's not a, you're not going to sit here and take it
and, and there, you know, you'd not have to go home and work on your life and work on the way you
think about things. You know, you got work to do.
So, we, we, yeah. So what's that work look like? Because when you, I know what I do when I
throw a flash, flash bang in the room, I know what to do next. I know what that work is.
What's the work when that you're talking about? I mean, look, some people want to go do some
counseling, right? Go into talking to people. What I say with people go to counseling, I say,
uh, I tell people, if you don't have goals, don't go to counseling. Like, don't go into
counseling and, and think that it's going to be somebody else fixing it for you. Um, it's kind of like
calling up a trainer and thinking that you, you know, you can go to the best gym, you can have the
best trainer and the best nutritionist, but you still got to put it in the work, you still got to eat
the right food, and you still got to show up and do it, right? And, and it's kind of the same thing
with counselors. Um, know what you want changed. You know, you know, really look at, take a hard
look in the mirror and, and it starts with accountability and like a lot of people want to
avoid accountability because as soon as you recognize, as soon as you say and look in the mirror,
it's like, hey, I'm fat. Well, then you've made a conscious choice not to do something about it.
And, um, so for me, like, I know that I have to get, like, usually I, I look in the mirror and I
start seeing who I'm surrounded by. Like, when I start going down that road, the first thing I look at,
where am I spending my time? Um, and that usually tells me the most of it, right? So I'll back off
of that and then, um, and then I just start, I start, you know, if I need to go to counselor,
if I want to talk to people, I'll talk to people. But most time for me, like, I want to talk to
I'll call you or I'll call, I call people and they don't even know why I'm calling them,
but I'll call them. I'll call them. We're just to get out. Whenever you're free,
get me pops up on my phone. I'm like, here we go. I like, do I have an hour? Yes, I do. We're living
a rocker. Oh, I don't know what I know. I'm like, it's good to be doing. Sometimes I get out the
phone with you. I was sitting on my front porch talking to you one day. I got a phone, I called you
for like five minutes and we were on the phone for an hour and I got off the phone and I'm like,
I promise you, I won't back in. I'm like, I don't even know why this guy answers the phone for me.
I remember the one time we were talking and when I got off my wife was like, who was that?
I was like, it was Dakota. She goes, I have never heard you laugh. So freaking hard for so long.
One time I remember I was in my kitchen and I had tears. Literally tears were coming out of my eyes.
I was laughing. So freaking hard at what you were telling me and man, and that's happened a few times.
It's happened a few times. I mean, oh yeah. So yeah, I know when I see that when I see the
code of pop up on my phone, I'm like, all right. Yeah. I should freaking record those things.
Yeah, I could record them for counseling. I could record them for podcasts or I could record them
for comic freaking relief. Yeah, you know, because like you, you, you don't help it though.
Like let me say this. You, you are like the fuel of it because because I'll say something.
And you'll say like a few little words just like, you know, like I'll be coming down and he'll just
like say something else and gauge and it's like, there we go again. Yeah. No, I remember one time you
called me two and you were like, man, you were ready to go hot. Oh, I was. And I was like, all right,
man, and actually I remember what I said, I said, okay, let's think about this strategically.
Let's think about this strategically. Well, if you execute what you're talking about,
execute me. I said, where are you? You've been six months, where are you going to be three years?
Where you can be five years like that was pretty much all I had to say. Did you get it? Yeah.
Oh, oh, yeah, I remember that conversation. Yeah.
Jock, Jock, Jock told me was and he didn't say not to do it. I understand. He didn't say not to do it.
He, he, he said, hey, he said, if you're going to do it, um, like only do it if it's worth
losing everything. That's exactly what he told me. And that's a picture. And then that's what I left with.
And I was walking around Lowe's and I was like, yeah, I don't think further yet. All right,
so that's working around. So what is the hard work story? Are you going to do it?
We're not talking about that. We're not talking about that, but we will say it was not legal.
No way. It was no way. When I had already thought it, you had a freaking course of action
before me. It was called the freaking battlefield command. He was like, hey, boss, I got a
course of action. I want to run by you. See if I can get mission execute on this thing. I'm like,
okay, go ahead. You know, I'm all ears. What you got? Seven minutes later, you know, he's running through
time line. Oh, that's a cute check list. I'm like, okay, I already had the cover up story.
Right. Yeah. Man. But like that to me is like that. Like, but as you know what, like, but I know who
to call, right? Like, I know in that situation, I'm not going to call some idiot. You know what,
I mean, because next thing you know, they're like, we're going to meet you. We're doing right?
I know, I know, like, I'm so fortunate. I got, I've got all, like, I've got quite a few, just people
that I just look up to so much. And I trust. I trust like, like, you like, if you tell me something,
like, I know, I know it's what you would do. And so I trust that, right? Like, I know it's exactly
what you believe in what you would do. And so like, that's why I would call you with something like that.
Or I would call you. And that's for me, that's that's my, that's how I fix myself.
You're, I mean, yeah, no, it's, it's, it's, uh, believe it or not, if you have people around you,
that can, are, are on the same wavelength as you, it's a method of actually detaching from the
situation, because you're all wrapped up in it, right? You're with the emotions and all this stuff.
You're all wrapped up up. And I'm not just saying you, but any human echo could be all wrapped up
on some emotional thing and call me up and be like, hey, this is what's going on. This is what I want to do.
Because we're bros, I, I'm thinking in your best interest. I'm thinking in your best interest.
So I'm, but I'm not wrapped up in it. So I can say, hey, man, let's think through what you want to do
right now. Let's see what the long term. I mean, and that why, like, in fights, I mean, their coaches are in
the coaches are there. The coaches in the corner, right? Like, the coaches and out there necessarily,
you know, engaging or necessarily having to put in the physical piece of it, but the coaches make
sure that guy doesn't get too emotional, making sure to, to stay stick to the plan exactly.
And, and that's why it's so important in life, you know, like even back when all this media stuff
used to go on, and I would get hammered. Like, I have a few people who are very, the one at some
of the best in the media world. And I'll back up and call them. And you know what I make a rule.
I make a rule that as soon as I pick up the phone, like, I'm not calling you for advice.
Like, when I call you about that, like, if you say don't, don't do this or, or, hey, do this,
why listen to that? Because I picked up the phone and I called and asked it, like, I'm not
going to sit here and ask you and then go do something stupid because like, why would I even waste
your time? You know, and, and that's, I think that's so important to have those people in your life,
to be that logic side when you get into the emotional side too much. You know, for sure.
All right. So we're getting the the Stelet gangly and block and that's sort of
giving you the opportunity to work some of these things out. You know, the weird thing is
that's thinking about. So one of the things that I know for a fact, right? So, you know,
for me, I'll go and talk to a company or I'll go and talk to people or I'll talk on this podcast
about the worst days of my life, right, when I lost guys and it's, I believe it's helpful
because I've like, okay, I've talked about, I've written this down, I've explained what this
situation is, even even, you know, giving like, ulegies for my friends at their, at their
memorial services, like you have to kind of think through things and you have to process them and
then you write down and then you like even that for me, it's socks and it's freaking horrible,
but at the same time, I know that it allows me to sort of gather together my thoughts and put them
in some kind of perspective. And when you write something down, you're actually attaching from it.
You're actually attaching from it. You're, you're, it's on the paper. It's, it's actually on the paper.
And then when you talk to some people about it, it's like, oh, you get to see their perspective,
they get to give you some of their perspective about it. And so it's a way of, um, um,
I guess just working through the problem, like it's like almost like stretching your when you're
sore, you know, you stretch out, right? It's almost like that. Hey, I'm going to get some blood back
in there. I'm going to think through this and the difference for you, like in those early days,
people are just putting their perspective on you. It's like just layering it on you all the time.
Yeah, and like let me ask you, yeah. So like when you, like what, how old, like where were you
at in your life? Like when you lost your guys? 30, five. Okay. Were you married? Yes. Okay. So like
so like check. So like how old are you right now? I'm 32. Yeah. So so my, my thing is is right is like
what, what would have happened if you know, you, you, you, you, you had that it happened 10 years before.
For sure. You know, you know what I mean? So like I think that's what's, I think that's where you,
like that, that's, that's, that's what's awesome about is like you're kind of like,
for just for me. I'll talk about for me. Like you're the, you're, you're the, I can, like you're the,
you're the better side of this. Like I can, like you, you give hope to a guy like me.
They, man, I can get there. I can, I can, I can, I can be okay. Like this ain't this ain't like the
realities that are in my mind sometimes. Like I understand, like I can look at somebody and say,
look, no, no, this isn't realities. Like I'm not, I, I will figure this out. If I, if I, if I hang around
people, if I hang around jocco and I take that and I take that mentorship, I can be that someday.
I can get there someday. I can literally look at it. It's not an idea. Your reality. And for a guy like
me, that's reality. And I think that's, but, but on the back side of it, you're not giving me,
you're not giving me advice. The guys, if I talk to my buddies, like I'm taking advice from a guy who
seen it at at 23 21 myself, right? You got to see it from a perspective at an older age with a different
life. 100% my whole, in fact, my whole experience of like being in combat was the most,
the most gentle, like rot, like the first operations I did were like, no, that was like nothing.
Like cool, we're going outside the while. It was like this really nice, kind of ramp, slow ramp.
It wasn't just like, oh, welcome to combat. You know, everything's freaking crazy. So I,
you know, even like the, the just the nervousness about of being like, oh, this is real. Like,
that was, I was very lucky. Yeah. I got that out of my system. The first five
ops I went on, and nothing happened, right? I was like, oh, okay, cool, I kind of got this, right?
And then it, it was just a slow kind of ramp from there. And, and yes, I was old.
I mean, I can't believe I was three years older than you are, right, freaking now.
I'm, let's, but crazy. And I'd spent my whole life in the military.
And that's what, you know, so the, yeah, I was a huge, I was very, very lucky in the way things unfolded
from it. And, and when things, if they got, when they got, not good for you,
you had a person in your life that you trusted with everything.
That you knew if you were starting to get off the path, you knew you could look at her and
you could have a good gauge. You had a, you had a very good gauge of the man that you were.
Yeah, and I think more than that, um, in my own mind, I realized that I needed to.
And I, I'll tell you what I talked about this with J.P. when J.P. was on here. And, um,
and so when, when Mikey got killed, we were sending him home. And he was, so we're going into
like a connex box to like say goodbye to him one at a time. And like I walk, so basically you can walk
in the connex box. You see, Mike, you know, freaking give him a kiss and say goodbye. And then turn around
and walk back out. And, um, I remember just looking at J.P. and because J.P. was like right ahead of me
walking in and as he's walking back out, like I, I see J.P. and J.P. was 22 or 23 years old.
And this was his bro. And I look at his face and he is just fucking just absolute torment in his face.
And I said to myself like, hey, J.P. you better keep your shit together right now. Because
like you said earlier, like it's like a breaking point. And people, if one person breaks it's,
and on the guy that's allegedly in charge. And if I break down right now, man,
it's going to be what it's going to be a nightmare. And I remember seeing him be turned around. He
looked at me in the eyes and his face was just tormented and, and J.P. is such a passionate guy. And he's
so emotional and, and he was young, you know. And I just remember, I said, I better,
you gotta keep your shit together right now. Because they, because, you know, they need you.
Right, they need you to act like a fucking man right now. And that's what I had to do. And I kind of
felt like, you know, with with my wife, with my family, it's the same type of thing. Like,
hey, you got a hold the line. Like, you got to, you got to do this. And look, my wife's
a freaking badass. You know, she's the one that was, you know, I think, I didn't go to Mikey's funeral.
I was still in Iraq. I didn't go to Mark's funeral. I was still in Iraq. Like, this is,
this is, this is my wife going to those things, you know. So, and she's, by the way, she's got three
kids. You know, she's getting a baby sitter so she can go to my friends' funerals. So, I'm not trying
to sit here and say, like, oh, I had to be all, all strong. She had to be strong. But that's what,
um, I guess to your point, I was older. I had a little bit more life experience, um, and, you know,
as you get older, you're, you're more able to handle things and put them in perspective.
Yeah, I mean, at, so like, at 33, that would be 12 years older than what I was when it happened to me.
You know, and I'm, by no means, I'm not, I'm not saying that it's either way or the other. I'm
just saying that like, the world's a little bit different than, right? And, and, and, you know,
like, the maturity levels of how I handled a lot of it is not the right way. You know what I mean? Like,
was drinking and, and going out and, and, you know, punching people in the face, like, you know,
and in the new book, we, we have coming out, right? Like, I talk about like, you know, I've just,
I mean, I was evil. Like, I don't want to tell you, like, I came back and,
I mean, I was mean. How was mean? And the problem was is like, when you take mean and you take a
guy who doesn't care and a guy who felt like he's already lost everything, like that is a dangerous
dude. Like, I would, it was nasty. I would say stuff. Like, I hurt my family. I mean, I would say
do stuff and it's just, you know, and, and I'm not saying like, I just didn't handle it right.
And I didn't have anybody there to, to hold the line with me. You know, like,
I mean, everybody, I, I mean, my whole team was gone. Like, everybody, like, my, the leaders
on my team were gone. And, um, yeah, I mean, you know, do I regret it? I regret it a ton of it.
And maybe if I had dealt with it better and maybe I had, you know, you just never know, right?
And, um, but yeah, it's just, it's different. It's different.
This is bringing me back to something you were talking about earlier. And I just want to,
so you're talking earlier about like having a mentor and having people. And I, I just want to say,
like, you know, if you're in a position where you can help somebody out, that maybe you've
already been through the haunted house and you can give them a heads up. And I think people when
they hear being a mentor, it's isn't like this has to be some official thing. Like, hello,
Dakota, okay. What do you like me to mentor you? Is this not what I'm talking about?
But just being being someone that can indirectly say, hey, man, how's it going? Okay,
what are you doing with that? Hey, what are you, what are you thinking is going to happen next?
Just those kind of comments to be a mentor. You don't have to sign up and you don't have to,
you don't have to freaking go through a course. You know, there's no eight week, what,
what, what, what, what was your baby care course code? There's no course for how to handle a 22 year
old or whatever. It doesn't exist. But just giving sharing your experience and the, the other
thing is you don't have to be perfect. I'm damn far from, I'm not even, I'm not even the same ballpark.
Right? You don't have to be perfect to be able to say, hey, listen, Dakota, when this happened to me,
here's what I did. Here's the actual mistakes that I made. Yeah. Right? The, the,
the, here's the things that I freaking completely screwed up, watch out for these things. So it's not
hey Dakota, here's what I'm doing and I was perfect. No, not even close. So maybe you might be
thinking, listen, this like, well, oh, uh, uh, you know, I'm not good enough to be someone's mentor,
bullshit or maybe you think I don't want to be someone's mentor, bullshit. Be someone's friend
build a relationship with them and show them the freaking path through the haunted house, tell them
what they can expect. Even if you screwed it up, it's better than it's better than not than letting them
just, you know, get, get in a bad situation, but don't try to mentor them on something you have
not gone through. Don't say it up front. That's got to be your disclosure. Yeah. Of, you know,
and, and like, I'm so fortunate because like, man, I'm, I'm surrounded by people I don't deserve.
Like, I've got, I, I, I, I mean, I, I'm just so fortunate to have just great people. I can pick up
the phone and call it, hey, what do you think about this, right? And, you know, I tell you the
one thing that I cut out when, whenever I start going, you know, when I tell you, I have to do
that self reflection and look around. The people who are feeding into my bullshit are the people
that have to go. Like, the people who hype me up on my bullshit, like when I call up and I'm like,
who, yeah, what do you think about this? Oh, you know, like, not that bullshit or whatever,
right? Like, that's the first people that have to go. I don't, I don't need a cheerleading squad.
You know, I, I need people who are going to look at me like Tim Kennedy. Like, Tim Kennedy
looking at me and saying like, you know, I, I, I, I, I, I'm there forget one of the, we were working
out one time. And, um, I said something, he could tell us down. I was, you know, I was going through
my divorce and stuff. And I, I looked at him and I said, man, I'd made like a offhand
comment like, gosh, I'm, I'm fat. And he, like, Tim stopped what he was doing and he looked at me and
he said, hey, check it out. He said, you, when people hear your name, they look at you as a warrior.
When you walk on stage, they expect a warrior. When you talk, they expect a warrior. When you
wake up in the morning, they expect a warrior. So you know what you need to do? You need to look
in the mirror and he started acting like one. And that was it. Turn around went back to work out, right?
But that's what I need, right? Like, was that like a kick to me? 100%. But like, I don't need people
to, to feed in to, to my bullshit. I need people who are going to hold me accountable to standards
that I can't even hold myself to, to, to know what I can be and hold me to that standard. No,
hold the line when I don't even see it myself. Yeah, no doubt. And Tim Kennedy is one of those
common at you. Coming at your life. When he calls me, it's always going to, like, he calls
me for like reasons. He's like, hey, this is what's going on. He's like ready to brief me. It's
freaking legit. He's like, hey, here's what's going on. I got this this next time. Hey, Roger that.
Well, let me think about this. Okay, here's a move. You know, or whatever, here's a deal. Like,
like, if I call Tim Kennedy up and I said, hey, man, like if he thought I was filling
so far for myself, I was like, hey, man, I think I'm just going to end it today. Like, I honestly
think that Tim would be like, oh, I just make sure you leave all your cool, like, how can I have your
two guns? Like, he's not going to play the sip. Like, if I needed something to know, like, the
dude would be like, like, hey, I killed this guy. All right, well, well, I'll bring the shovel.
You know what I mean? Like, but I know these guys are like that. Yeah. And that's where I'm so
fortunate because I got that circle, right? Like, that circle is everything. Yeah. And I guess
what I'm saying is that's awesome. And everybody that's listening, you can actually be part of
that circle for somebody else. 100%. 100%. And if you do that, man, you, you, you make such a huge
impact in people's lives by doing that. So how long was this stellar gangly and block like of
the deal? Are you still getting that? I don't like, I, um, I probably did it up until 2020.
Um, and then my buddy, um, I was struggling real bad. Like, I was, it just, well, I don't know.
I was just still, I was still struggling with it, right? And, um, he's like, you got to get
you're going to Mexico. And I was like, for what? He said, don't worry about it. You're going to Mexico.
I, he said quite a few veterans are going down there. Guys, I trusted he named off a few people that
I trusted had gone to this. And I said, all right. And so I booked a trip and flew into San Diego. And so
I was going down to do, uh, it's a therapy, uh, with I will gain and five in me, ODMT and
then something that I would defer this thing that I could, you could ever get me to be around.
I was like, this is complete bullshit. And honestly, I was going to go and I told the doctor
when I got there, I said, hey, I'm coming to this. Just so I can walk away from this and tell
people that this is all this all bullshit. And I told him that I said, as soon as this doesn't
work, I'm going to go on every podcast. And I'm going to tell everybody that this is all dissolved.
So what, what were you going for? What was it? It's called Ibo gain. Okay. And it comes from a
root. What was the other thing that you said? Five in me, O, it comes from a toad, DMT.
So this is when Mike Tyson and and Joe Rogan are talking about riding the toad. This is what they're
talking about. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I went down there and I was in a
bad. Like I was still like my anxiety just you know, and for me, like the only thing that I like
when I look back at it, whatever, what would always got me to the point of where I'm like, I don't
know if I'm going to wake up tomorrow was anxiety. For like the best way to describe it for you is
imagine when you're underwater and you can't breathe, you should know very well. Do.
What will you do to get to the top to get a breath and whatever it takes? Yeah. Right. And that's
what anxiety is. Like if you can't get rid of it, you'll get to the point to where you're like,
if I have to end it, for anxiety to get rid of this feeling, I will do that. And that was the
point. That was the only thing that got me there. And so I went down there, the other guy I'm talking
about when I went to his name, but he was struggling to and let me tell you something. He's one of the
hardest dudes I know. My team leader, you know, and this was about a year after my team leader,
who was a Marine sniper took me through, got me to become a Marine sniper, went down a rack with
him deployed with him, then he went over it, got out of the Marine Corps and said, forget it,
I'm going to go be a Navy seal, became a Navy seal, deployed with the Navy seals, team out in
Hawaii and in one day you said, I'm done and put it, put it, put it to gun to his mouth and kill
himself. Another hard guy, no. And so, you know, when people call these guys cowards,
they're not cowards. They're not cowards. These are some of the hardest man that have ever
walked the face to planet. And that's why you know, you have to take it serious. And so anyway,
this guy, he went down there, I get down there and you have to sign like paperwork that says,
you may experience that you're dying. I mean, it's one of the scariest things that I've ever done.
And after you take it, there's no, you ride it to the law frame. There's no off-rim.
And so I took this out, so you go there and there's like, you didn't eat all day on a Friday.
I took the Ibogaine at 8 p.m. on a Friday. And now you're talking about, they were like doing
this sage stuff, like hippie stuff. And I'm like, you guys are hippies. I don't, I don't mean that.
Like, I'm nothing against hippies, but I'm just not one, right? I don't know, I can't get into this,
you know, waving this stuff around or whatever. And believe whatever you want again, but like,
I couldn't, I couldn't get into the mood. And so I'm like, I take it and you have to write down
your intentions on this piece of paper. And I just wrote that I just wanted to some relief.
I wanted some, I just wanted some relief, whatever. So you go up and you lay down this room,
you lay on this, the bed, it's beds on the floor. And you put these blindfolds over.
And I didn't feel anything for a minute. When you take it, what is that like a drink?
It's like, like, peel, measure it out, so you take it, you know, in, you and I talked a little bit
before you came out here. And I knew about some of these things that you were trying. And I don't
know about these things. Yeah. And one of my friends, Tim Ferriss, is like, just to say, like,
when you're like, oh, this hippie stuff, that's kind of the way I think, too, right? And, and
I like want to understand it better because I know it helped you. Look, even, even Rogan.
He told me he's like, I think it will help. I think it will help Dakota. And you and I went back and
forth. I was like, hey, man, I'm going to ask Joe. And I said, hey, Joe, what do you think? And at that point,
he'd met you and he'd been on his podcast. And he was like, that was actually, you actually texted me.
I did it. You were like, hey, what, this is what I'm coming to San Diego for. What do you think?
And I was like, dude, I don't freaking know. Let me ask Rogan. So I asked him. And of course,
what is he's. But he wasn't. I mean, as much as Rogan is is understands this stuff. And he's for it.
He was also like, he laid out reasons. Yeah, I'll text him and ask him a question about something.
And he'll be like, no, don't know. That is not going to help. If you're trying for this,
he's like, nope, that won't help you. So, so that's one part of it. Like, Rogan has that level of
understanding. And then on the other side, Tim Ferriss is trying to get this stuff approved medically
and trying to get support there. And so I just asked him to give me a rundown of like, hey,
what is all this stuff? You know, it's not just hippie stuff. And he's like, no, it's not just hippie stuff.
And here's what it is. And like, he said, I began because he, he was kind of talking me through this.
I began from some shrub in Africa. And he said, it's like the most powerful. There is.
Right. He said a lot of seals do it because seals are like, you know, all right, what I'm going hard.
Yeah. What do you got? And so, so that's what I became is. I began is it's a lot of times
they use it for opioid addiction. So yeah, but like, it's so it's so hardcore that they put these
people on it for opioid addiction. And it kicks their ass to where they don't do opioids again.
All right. So back to your story. So you take the thing, they're waving, they're waving hippies stuff for
around. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I just, I couldn't, and I like, they laughed at me the
whole time, right? They're like, I'm like, yeah, whatever. I can't get it. Are these Americans that are
down there? Are they? So there was like, yeah, all of them were except for two. Okay.
And so we're there in this house. And then there's a bunch of, there's a bunch of seals there.
I like that are, make sure we, nothing, nobody comes in that are there to help you.
If you need something, but like, all I'm going to tell you, all I'm going to say is,
is like, I was surrounded by seals. And so that tells me, like, hey, like seals are no bullshit.
Like, you know what I mean? Like, and that's, yeah. So I took it and all the sudden, like,
I feel it starting to come. Like, it's like, it was like this spinning. And, and you were just like,
it was like, it was like, all, it's like I was watching my life on a TV screen. And I didn't see anything
from more. And I was walking through this town and everything looked gloomy. And I, I, I, I, I
never forget I went into this one room. And I went in this room. And I, I, I seen like all these
people, like, this huge crowd. And, but I felt like just disappointment. And, um, and I got,
I did my typical me of wanting to fix it. Like, what did I do wrong? Like, how can I fix this?
And I kept running up to all of them. And then it would be like flashing up people that I knew
and people that like, I knew I hadn't done anything to, but just did it for manipulation.
And like, there were just flashing on and on. And finally, I'm just like, what did I do wrong? And,
like, I just remember feeling this like this feeling of just defeat. And I was in there
for probably four hours. And then I came out and I was walking down the town. Like, I would look
at every little gauge. And it would be like, uh, the gauge would instead, like it would fill up.
And instead of being at full, it would say finished. And it would be like this far from finished.
And I never finished anything. And then I would see this beautiful ball light. And I would go to it.
And it would be my two daughters playing. And, um, this went on until three p.m. on Saturday
afternoon. And I never forget there was at one point of it. And I, uh, like, I was just, like,
I just felt like I was such a trash that I was falling just like, I just, I don't care anymore.
Like, my ego, it took my ego and just smashed it. And it's like, I don't care when anybody thinks,
I don't care. I know I wake up and I, I'm the best man. I know I get my best. I'm not perfect. I know
that I know that I don't come off and say the right things. But I know what my antenna is.
I know there's, you couldn't look at me and make me question my intent. Like, you can definitely
question my delivery. You can criticize how I come off or how I do this or, but my intent is there.
And my intent is good. And I'm never forget like that, it broke everything. It's like,
got to the point where I got in care anymore. And like, I'm never forget that I was laying there. And I was like,
just, I'd like, if this is odd, I, this is odd, I. And, um, I just didn't care anymore. I didn't care
what my mom thought of me. I didn't care what, you know, all these people that I had, I had invested in.
And I had gave them these titles, which when you give somebody titles, you give them a thought,
you know, you're not going to tell me what my intent is. And so I come out of it. I was so pissed off.
When I came out of it, like I literally looked at the doctor and I said, this is what you brought me here for.
I said, I called up the guy who sent me there who's a close friend. I said, this is
100% bullshit. Like I was so down, like out, because my biggest fear was opening Pandora's box.
And, um, he's like, wait till the next day. So the next day you do this, this five
MEODMT. And, um, I never forget like, I, I, I, I, I wanted to make sure I seen the world the same. So I'm
looking out this window in Mexico. And we're looking out. We're right by the ocean. I look out.
And all I can see is it's not all I can think of my head is man. This place is a shittle.
That's all I can think. I go down to do this DMT and I, I laid down and as soon as you go, like,
it's almost like it, it was like feet first. Like I was like gone, like to a tube, right?
And, um, and it feels real. Or do you know that you're like, no, you know you're tripping.
You don't see a thing. No, you, you know, I mean, you know, it's, it's not like it's a physical thing.
Like when you drink you physically feel drunk. It's like your salt. Like it's, it's not a,
it's not a physical reaction. It's like your soul. And, um, I was, it was gone. And like,
you can't see anything. It was pure white. It was the most beautiful white
that I've ever seen in my life. It was, there's no, there's no word in English dictionary to
ever describe how beautiful the white was. And all I could feel was love. Like I felt good.
I felt like you could feel what good is. Like if you took how I feel when my daughters
give me a hug or that that unconditional love, like that's what the whole place felt like.
It was like the perfect temperature. I didn't think about anything else.
And all I heard were my teammates say that it was all right.
And, um, yeah, it was like, it was like everything bad was gone. It was like, I got
to like a reset in my life. And, uh, when I came back to, I set up. And I just like, I started crying.
And I looked at these, these two women who were there, these two nurses. And I just couldn't
believe that like there were such, there were like, I had to like, I'm in Mexico and there's
two people who genuinely care about me. And, uh, I care about me enough to, to help me through this.
And I looked out the window and I was like, gosh, this is the most beautiful place I've ever
been. And I didn't have any anxiety after that. I went back home. The stuff that like would send
me over the edge. Man, I was just happy to be alive. How long has this, I woke up every, like I
still, I mean, still, I get up. And do I have bad days? Yeah, but, but like, I'm just happy to be here.
You know, like, like, you know, I, I just changed my whole life. Like, I, I came back in my anxiety
was, I mean, I get normal. There is normal anxiety. But like that, those anxiety tax, I haven't had
one sense. How long has it been? It'll be two years this November.
You know, the thing that you said about intent is something that I, I, I talk about a lot from a,
from a leadership perspective and that bleed over into life because I think if you're doing the
right things for the right reasons, if your intent is good, you're going to be okay. Right? If you're
not trying to screw somebody over for not trying to maneuver, for not trying to sneak one by somebody,
if you're not trying to look out for your own agenda, like the military, it's a classic example.
You get an officer or a senior enlisted leader that what their intent is to get themselves promoted,
or what their intent is to get themselves at freaking a war or credit or accolades. If that's what
their intent is, everybody can see it. And it doesn't work out good for them in the end.
If their intent is good, that they want to get the mission done that they want to take care of
their team, that they want to, that they're putting themselves below their team and lifting their
team up. Like, that intent is what, what makes a good leader, what makes a good person.
And I think when people have bad intent, it eats them apart, it eats them up.
And they can, they can have bad intent. You can cover it up. You can try and drown it out. You can
pretend that it's not there, but it's there. And what I tell people is like intent, you can smell
people's intent. And the worst part about it is you can smell your own intent. You can. And if you have
bad intent, you have to sit in that rod and stink yourself. And it will, you apart. You can put
a perfume all over it. You can put the odor in all over it. It's still there. And you know it.
So that's like a realization that you had of my intent is good. Yeah, like, like, look,
your intent is, is your foundation of your house. Your priorities are basically the, the shell
of your house. They can change. You can move rooms. You can adjust on it. Right. But if you're intent,
you know, if your intent is is is wrong, that house is not going to stand. You can't keep building
on that house. You can't keep adding on to it. You can't keep making it better. The foundation
is done. It's done. And the only difference between murder and self defense is intent. And
nobody can question that. No, it, it is what it is. It's, it's black and white. It is,
it is an, your intent is absolute. And that's ultimately, when you start digging down the root of this
tree, that's ultimately what's going to decide if you're going to hold up in the bad times or not.
Yeah, the, the thing is, I don't know if, you, I don't know if I caught exactly what you said,
but I've seen people change their intent in their life. 100%. Okay. So I, I, I, I thought you said,
like, oh, you can't change your intent. You can't change your intent of something that happened in the past.
But if you've been running around looking out for yourself and stepping on people's backs and that's the
way you roll, you can change that. You can actually begin to act like a good person. Yeah, but
here's what I'll tell you is, is you can't be both. That is true. You can't, you can't, you can't,
you can't be selfish and selfless. You're either one of the other. And there is no
why I'm selfish at these times, but I'm selfless at these times. No, no, no, because then when you're
selfless, you're only being selfless when you want to be selfless and that's selfish. Yeah, right?
Like there's no being both in this life. Like you don't get to, you don't get to skirt the line.
You're either all in on one of the other. And it's obvious. And there's no,
there's no, there's no, there's no ex, there's no excuse for that. It is what it is.
And you know it. And you know it on everything you do. You ultimately know it.
Is it like a one time thing? I just, I've done it once. And then, you know, the only thing I'll do now
is like a, like how you're still a sideband. If I, if I start feeling anxiety come around, right? Like,
I'll, I'll just do a dose of still a sideband. Okay. So, so a sideband is mushroom. Mushrooms. Yeah.
And, and then when you say you feel it coming, it's just like, hey, tomorrow, like I feel like I'm
nervous about tomorrow or is it like, hey, I'm starting to feel nervous right now. Now I start like,
like, you know, like I came home from that I would gain experience and like, I got to see the world
and a place that I've never seen it. Like I got to see like with a relief that I had never felt,
I didn't know that people could really walk around like this. And, you know, I, I mean, you got to take,
I grew up in chaos. I mean, the only, a lot of times, you know, my, my biggest thing is
is, is not like people talk about being in like the, the dark places. Why I'm comfortable there?
The problem I have is is being in the light where there's not dark places. You know,
I have the problem of being when there's no chaos. You want to talk about where I'm the best
is, is you put me in the most chaotic environment and it needs to get figured out. Like,
and the stakes are high? Well, that's, that's where I'm good. The problem I'm trying to learn is how to be okay
when it's not chaotic. And that's what I have to, that's what I have to work on.
How often do you feel like that anxiety is coming and you go like, like, how often do you feel like,
oh, I better get a little bit of a little bit of a suicide and help me get through this.
You know, once a quarter, one, like, so I'm just me personally. Like, I, I don't think,
like, I don't, I don't know how to do this stuff. Do I look at as a recreational type of thing? Like, I don't,
I don't think, I think if, if you're using it as a medicinal piece as a, not as a medicinal,
of I'm going to do it every night, if I go to bed, you know what I mean? I can't, if you're using it to,
because it's something you need. Nobody questioned somebody who takes blood pressure medicine.
You know what I mean? Like, so, you know, for me about once a quarter, you know, and I'll do, like,
I'll do a big dose, like, like, like a six or six or seven grams of psilocybin and
then like, how, I'm good. It's like five hours and then I'm good.
So before we wrap up this little section on, uh, this is, this is, this is,
like I said, I talked to Tim and, and he just gave me a bunch of really good information,
because I don't understand this stuff. I don't know about it. I've never done it before,
and, but I've talked to so many of my friends that have had that it's helped them so much,
you included, that I want, you know, I have an open mind. I want to understand it better.
Um, you know, a couple of things that he said actually, there's a few things that he said,
number one, like, because the veteran community has gone through such traumatic experiences,
that's the main group to, to need this type of treatment. The other one is is survivors or victims
of traumatic assaults, whether that's sexual assaults or physical assaults, but people that have been
through that. So it's, but, but there's no federal funding for it. So there's no federal funding for it,
which means there's no, there's, there's not enough money. It's just people that are donating,
donating money to try and try and help get funding for more research. Um, the thing about
specifically, he said about mushrooms, they've been used for thousands of years, right? So mushrooms
have been used for thousands of years, um, and, and he also said, and this was interesting to me,
like, there's no, you don't need, you don't want to do more. No, he said, you do something,
and you're like, okay, I don't want to do more. It's not, it's not like heroin or cocaine,
where we need to do cocaine apparently, because I've never done it, but apparently, when you do it,
you just want to do more. When you do either I had a neighbor that had gotten out of prison and
moved in with his uncle, and he was, he was out of prison after seven years, and he, um,
he was on meth, and he said the first, he said, hey, the first time I did crystal meth,
it was the only thing I ever wanted to do for the rest of my life. Yeah, so, and he went right
down that path and stole from everybody that knew and freaking wrecked his life and ended up in jail.
But, you know, what Tim was saying is like, there's, there's like an anti-addictive,
like, um, because you can't, you don't want to do it every day. No, I mean, like, I couldn't
imagine if you thought you were going to go out and party and somebody gave you a thing of
eye-bogaine. You know what I mean? Like, like, like, like, like, I couldn't imagine if you thought
you were going to go out and party and you took, you know, six to eight grams of still siren,
like, for me personally, maybe I'm weak, but I, I just, I couldn't imagine and like, there's
nothing about it. Like, it's like, work. Like, if I'm taking this, like, I know I'm going in to do some
work. The, um, the way he was describing it to me and he certainly talked about the tattoo,
you know, we're about leadership strategy and talking about detachment. He's like, oh yeah,
here's what it is. He goes, uh, mushrooms, civil siren is like, it is your brain can detach and look
at what is going on and then you can find a solution for it. And you just made a face like, yes,
it's clarity. And I get off like, I come off of it and I can thank clear, then I've ever been able to
think. He, he said, you know, I begin definitely got to be careful. He said there's cardiac risk,
like you can have some significant problems from that, um, whereas mushrooms, he, he said,
basically, I don't think there's any, like, reported ODs on mushrooms. You would have to do
pounds of it. And there's no way he can do pounds of mushrooms. He also said that,
he said, look, there's a whole warning thing, right? There's a whole, like, warning thing that you
need to watch out for, uh, specifically if you've had schizophrenia in your family, it's like a
big red flag. It's probably no go. They don't, when, when they're testing it, they don't test it on
people that that have had those types of problems before. But, um, like you said, like, it's like
these, these things are one to two, maybe three sessions and you don't need it anymore.
So some of the other warnings look, there's legal, like there's, it's illegal. Yes, it's illegal.
It's illegal. So you can't do it. You're not allowed to do it. You're not allowed to do it.
Mm-hmm. Um, and if you get caught with it, you, you'll go jail. You go, you go to jail.
So that's, that's number one, right? The other thing that Tim said is like,
you've got a, for him, he's like, if somebody asked me about it, he says, here's the protocol.
You, you know, a month of preparation. And the preparation that he's put on people is like,
hey, you got to meditate every day. You got to, he's got some books to read. Um, you got to do that.
He said, you got to look at it like, if you're getting knee surgery. If you're an athlete and
getting knee surgery, what do you do? You go out. You research. You find the best doctor. You do the,
there's prep work to get ready to have surgery. You got to like work out a certain way and do
certain exercise to get ready. Then once you get the surgery done, you got to go into,
you got to rehab and you, and it's what you said earlier, like, you got to do the work.
You, you got to do the work. And like, if you're not willing to put in that work on the front end,
you don't respect it enough to do it. You don't have, you don't want to get better. You don't
want to use it for the intent that it needs to be used for, right? Like all these things,
I take it very serious. Like, I don't, let me tell you something. Like, I, I mean, it's even
hard for me to talk about like honestly, like, it just upfront. Like it's hard for me to even talk
about in this room because it's like, this is something that I, in this room, a year ago, two years ago,
would have looked at like, what are you doing? Right? And it's hard to bring that up around people
that I know and trust because if they haven't, it's one of those things that if you haven't done it,
but then I start thinking to myself, why can I drink alcohol? You know what I mean? Why,
why can I do all these other things that somebody has allowed me to do? I could go to the VA right now
and get prescribed clotapin. I could get Xanx's. I could be out of my mind on all these pharmaceuticals
and that's acceptable in our society and addictive and addictive and bad for you. But this,
this is even if I have to think about this, even if I have to go through my life. Let's say I do this
once a quarter, the rest of my life. For five hours, once a quarter. Really? People go to bars.
They spend more than that in a bar drinking alcohol on the weekends. Well, for me,
like I said, I've got you and when you got, I actually like I'm like, how was it, man?
I mean, how was it? And you were like, I feel freaking awesome now and I was like, okay,
I mean, like if my friend can escape this pain and this suffering that you're in,
like I want at least other people know about it and listen, there's like, there's all kinds of
things you need to think about. It's preparation. It's making sure you understand it. It's
finding the best doctor the right place. It's, it's also having a safety net in place before you do it
because because it can't uncover things that you didn't think we're going to come. You didn't think
this was coming and guess what, you get hit with it and it will. You get ambushed. So you better have
some backup. You better have some safety net. You have to assume that you're going to need help when
you're done with it. Getting the right environment, Tim said, take less than you think you can handle.
Everyone's like, oh, I'm just going in hard. Like, dumb move. Yeah, dumb move. He did also mentioned
a couple places where there's John Hopkins University, John Hopkins University is doing all kinds
of experimentation to try and figure out how to use it properly. There's a bunch of other places
that are doing it as well. There's something called maps.org, map.org, maps.org, which is the
multi-disciplinary association for psychedelic studies. That's it. That's, this is if you want to
support what we're talking about. If you want to try and get it, so it's not underground. Right?
Because if you can go get prescribed X and whatever other things that you're talking about, or you can
just go down to the freaking corner store and buy a bottle of whiskey and a knee-brie at yourself,
which all it does is cover up the problems, numbs the problems. If you would like to say,
hey, maybe we should take a different approach, you can go to maps.org, you can go to
usesonainstitute.org. It's just another, it's USO N-A-I-N-S-T-I-T-U-T-E.org. To try to donate or whatever,
you can support there and then just universities that are out there that are doing this.
He told me a couple documentaries that will help you have better understanding one of them's
called Trip of Compassion and apparently it's super intense. Apparently they show this therapy
taking place and it's like really intense. And the other one is called Fantastic Fungi. Let me say that
right? Fungi. Fungi. Fungi. Fungi. Which is kind of a Alice kind of like, oh, that's kind of,
it sounds like whatever, almost a comedic right name and then he told me what it's about and
what it's about is they've got people that are have some kind of terminal disease. In many cases
older people, but people that are people like you what, what we're talking about where people that
would never think about doing anything like this in their lives and they haven't for 40, 60,
80 years and they're doing these drugs in order to overcome or be comfortable as they face death.
Yeah. And something like he says that there's like grandmalls on there that you know never
drank in their life and they're on there saying this is the best thing that I've ever done. So
definitely some look this again. I'm I'm no pro do research, but it's something that we
need to start talking about because if it can help us out, if it's been helping people for
a long time anyways, you know, with the case of mushrooms been helping for thousands of years,
if there's something, if there's a way to help people, let's freaking research it, let's find out
how to do it right and let's let's get people to a situation where they can do it legally,
but again doing it with the right intent. Yeah, with the right intent. And I'm telling you,
drinking is way easier than going in and facing and working through what you see with this.
Drinking is easier going and you know running away from your problems is way easier. This is a
this is where it's going to it's going to look you in the eyes and you're going to if you want to
work on it, you'll work on it. I mean, and it's so hard. It sounds like even me talking about it.
It sounds so crazy. Just even talking about it like that. But it's really like for example,
the last time I did it. I mean, I I I I I sit there and looked at my teammates dead,
but you know what I looked at it and I waited. I was okay with it. I came out of it and I was okay
with it. Yeah, did I still feel the hurt? Yeah, there was I said I got to see my grandparents,
which I loved more than anything. But I was okay with it. Yeah, it's okay to it's a normal reaction
to to hurt from it to miss them, but it's not normal to let these actions dictate the rest of your life.
And that was where it did it gave me the perspective of seeing it again on my terms.
And it and hopefully with that did is it processed it now. It's out, check.
Proceed with caution with caution with caution. Let's talk about something that's a little less
controversial, but also provides a massive amount of healing in my humble opinion. A little something
called jujitsu. How's the jujitsu coming along, man? You know, I haven't I haven't rolled much lately.
I was rolling quite a bit whenever all the the COVID hit right now. Everything got shut down.
I feel like I'll probably be a white belt for life. We're all white belts for life.
I yeah, I mean, I haven't got the role of time lately. I think I rolled maybe like a month ago,
but I just I hadn't been able to get back around to there's plenty of jujitsu to go on and
allstate. Roger that. Tim Kennedy just FYI your brother here has not been rolling lately.
I'm sure you will help remedy that situation. One of the things that you know for me,
jujitsu is is so important for so many reasons. And it's aligned with the reasons of like
being in shape, working out, working out every day. To me, that's that's therapy. That's therapy.
Right. That's therapy for me. And I know it's therapy for a lot of people. And I know,
hey, give me one day for where for whatever reason I literally can't work out. Like,
whatever it is. Like, I woke up at three o'clock in the morning to travel and then when I got home,
the water he could, where it's broken and I had three clients call me and then my kid was sick.
And what I, whatever the thing is, it just didn't happen. I can feel it. Right. It's like a mental,
negative emotion that's going on. Yeah. If I, if it's like seven o'clock at night,
my wife's about to serve dinner and I didn't get to work on it. Go, hey, give me 30 minutes.
I'm going to go hammer one out. It's like a whole bunch of whole bunch of whole
little changes. But whole world change. Hey, my time that you've worked out and you left and you're,
you're not happy that you worked on my bum that did that. Oh, man. So fitness, huge thing. And I,
I know that speaking of fitness, what's up with this new freaking like application you got out?
Yeah. Talk to me about this. I just, I just launched this news. So like, I've always wanted, look,
I don't, I don't want to be a bodybuilder. Like, I have no credibility. I don't have no idea how
you can do it, right? I don't want to be a trainer. I don't want to be any of those, right? But like,
I do enjoy the therapy side of working out of of staying in shape, of being able to, you know,
know that that if we get a fire, I can go perform or knowing that I can get us out, you know,
like, I mean, I, I, I still get a truck to go get after it, right? Like, I have to be a dad to my,
you know, to my daughters and, and look, at some point in a few years when I'm older,
they'll be dating boys and I still have to be able to kick their ass, right? So I take that very
serious. You know, so I, I still have this, I know how to train. And to me, you know,
I feel like the closest I became, all my, look at, look at what all my friends have in common,
they all train. You know why? Because, you know, where we got close to our closest friends,
suffering and training together, right? I mean, that's it. And so, you know, I tell you,
build a team. I launch this new app. It's on owned the dash training.com and you can get on there.
We got workouts on there. Um, getting workout, same stuff I do, right? It's not about,
are you going to get on there with a program to come out as a bodybuilder? No, I don't,
I don't want to be that. But if you want to get on there and get after it and have a program,
you can follow to get after it and to be able to leave and know you did something. It's like,
I call it practical fitness. It's like, you don't, it's not complicated. I'm a simple guy. I get it done
where I can. I like to think it's efficient. You know, it's efficient. I just get in what I can with
what I got. And that's what it is. So you real quickly, like, just mentioned, oh, when I'm out
getting on the truck. Because you're a firefighter. Yeah, firefighter, you know, I did that last
year. I got knocked that out last year because, you know, during COVID and I was like, man, I really want
to get back. I really want to, I really want to, I feel like I just, I have more to give. Like,
this country's giving me so much people. I've given me so much. And I just, I feel like I have an obligation
to give. And I want to do it by being able to put my hands on people and being able to be there
in their worst moments. And so yeah, I went got my certification, became an EMT, became a firefighter.
I got my commission in Texas. And yeah, so I was paid for probably six months, five, four,
five, six months. And then just my, my speeches and stuff started coming back. So I had to get off
the truck. And, you know, me, you talked about, I mean, I wasn't a forever thing. It was more about
getting experience and trying to just sharpen that craft. And then, you know, now I still volunteer.
And then I'm, hopefully I'll start doing some part time stuff, start picking up some shifts at this,
this, uh, one of my, one of my closest mentors in the fire service, Sam Stacks has just been there
for me the whole time and just kind of led me through like he's like the, we call him though, you
know, you know, the white bearers, right? Like he's like the white bearer to the fire service,
you know him. And, um, just been there close for, and so anyways, I did that. And, you know, I just
get out there and try to try to help people when they need it. And it's awesome, man.
I, uh, I, uh, I've talked to a lot of fire departments in the country and a lot of fire departments
use the principles from extreme ownership, from dichotomy leadership, from leadership strategy
and tactics. We, we work with these guys a lot. And I, I always feel like, hey, I appreciate what you guys
do. I know it's a hard job. I know it's like a rough job. I know that you see a lot of stuff that
sucks. And I know that a lot of it is like note like you, you, you think of firefighting, you think of like
a movie like back draft where it's like all kind of dangerous, but heroic. And the other part of it
that I know exists is the part that's like heroic, yes, but a different kind of heroic. And man,
you and I have had some conversations about that that even up to my appreciation for firefighters and
EMTs even more when you're talking about just the day to day life. I mean, it is, yeah, let me tell you,
first off, let's let's talk about police and like, uh, EMS side of it, police, paramedics, EMTs,
police, let me tell you, they are the unsung heroes of this nation. The, the strain that is put on
our, uh, the film, the system that we have, the demand from them. They're overworked, they're treated
like shit, um, on deployment 365 days a year. On deployment 365 days a year. On deployment 365 days a year.
And I'm telling you, they are dealing with the, the piece of the world that we want to pretend
does not exist. And it is here. Um, the respect for them is, if you see a cop, you see a, any of them,
a first responder, you should thank them and you should thank from the bottom of your heart
for what they do that you don't have to see. Um, I had no clue as much as I pretended like I thought I
did. I had no clue. The stuff that I see have seen, but just since I've been doing it,
is, is worse than anything I've seen in Afghanistan. Um, almost daily basis. Yeah, I mean,
you'll, you have shifts that nothing goes on, but you have days where it sucks. And, um,
yeah, it's in, and it's, what they go through is just, you, you can't,
what, what I went through in Afghanistan, which I'm not going to say is for everybody,
is, is, is what everybody's gone through, um, but it can't touch what I've seen here in, in,
in the United States. And, you know, I'll tell you where it really hit me one time.
Is whenever I, uh, I was working on ambulance, uh, me and my, one of my closest friends,
um, when we, when we pull up and, um, to call where a kid hung himself. And, uh,
I'm never forget it was like a hanging and I'm never forget he looked at me. He's
way, I mean, this dude is talking about solid. Real, he's, he's, he's awesome. He looked at me
and goes, hey, make sure when we get out, grab the bolt cutters. He's like, uh, you never know,
like, if they hung themselves with something, other, like I never even thought about that, right?
Like this guy just, you know, you just, you walk in and you just see, you know, you can't,
this is not war. This isn't somebody shooting at you because they hate you. I mean, this is a
kid who was so lonely that he hung himself. And this is what happens. This is happening in our world
every day. Has anybody ever thought about who comes and takes care of this?
You know, and it's the car ricks. You know, the, the, the, you know, it's just, it's something that we
try to pretend that doesn't exist. And you got these people who were just going out and doing this
every day. I have no clue as what they've gone through. I've seen a little just about this much of it.
Just a, a smidge of it. But they go out and they get up in the middle of the night to go and
be there for when you dial 911 and it's like these, these people. Um, not me, but these people
that I have, got to work with, that I've got to see who have done this for years. Like they really are
the real life Batman's Superman. You look at it. Like, you know, they, when you call them,
they go and answer whatever needs you need in the worst moments of your life.
And they go back and they live theirs and they walk the streets among us and they don't ask for anything.
And it is crazy. They are, they are really gods in. And it's, it's incredible. And like,
you know, the appreciation I have for them just getting to work next to them. I just, I'm honored to just be
able to be around them. But it's, you talk about the world, the world right around us.
I mean, the houses that you walk into, you're just so sad. I mean, it's the people you see,
the overdoses. And, and you know, you're just like, I'm telling you right now,
the one thing that I have have been able to see is that people are hurting.
And yeah, but I'll tell you this, it's a, it's been the most fulfilling thing I've done.
You know, how cool is it to be somebody to be the person that can show up when somebody
calls 911 because they don't know how to figure it out. How cool is that to be able to come up
on a scene to where everything's chaotic and they just need somebody to help them get through that
moment and you get to be that person, right? And that's where I think like my perspective has changed
on all this, like with my teammates or with all the people I've seen die and all this, like,
you know what's kind of cool is, man, is I, for some reason, I keep getting put in these positions
and it's an honor because I get to be the person that's there with them as their soul leaves their
body and how cool is that to be able to share that moment with somebody. There are last moments on
this earth. I sometimes I get to share that with them, these people and it's an honor. Like I walk away
and does it bother me? Of course it bothers me. But now I get to say, hey, you know what,
it was an honor. It was an honor that you shared that moment with me. Whether you obviously didn't
choose to, but obviously we're here for a reason and I get to do this and it is like, it's awesome.
It is awesome. It's awesome. I've been lucky enough to work with police departments around the
country and what's interesting about what you were saying is that like you said, it's underneath
the surface, right? And I think when you see something on the news, you know, you see a shooting on
the news or a suicide or an overdose, we have a tendency to think that it's somewhere else.
Yeah, it's someone else. And I'm telling you small towns, big towns, cities, country, rural,
north, south, east, west. You don't have to go very far, quote beneath the surface because,
by the way, socio-economic class doesn't matter. You go to rich people's houses, you go to poor
people's houses, you go to the projects and there's people that are in their worst moments.
And then worst moments. And like you said, it's these first responders that are out there
that they answer that call every time. Every single time, every single time. And they do it for years.
They do it for years and on and it is like watching them, you know, just like literally,
they prepare for the unknown. They never know what the call is going to be. Like they literally
wake up every day to be, whatever you need them to be when they need to be it. And I'm telling you,
and they do it and they do it. They're, it's such a police, especially like police,
such a thankless job obviously right now, right? And they're out there doing their best and they're out there,
just trying to, just trying to, to be what people need them to be. And at the end of the day,
they're no different than you are. There are mother, there are sister, there are father,
there are son, there are no different than you are. The only difference is that they chose to put a
badge on to go serve other people. They're not, they're not some trained robot. They're not
some person who is, you know, was was born with all these, mind reading activities or can
read the future to know if someone's going to kill them tonight. They are just like you are. They are
as scared as you are. They, they don't want to do, like they got their own problems at home and
guess what they do. They choose to set theirs aside and they don't, let me tell you upfront,
they don't do it for the pay. They do not do it for the pay. They, they don't do that. They do it because
they care about people. I don't care. They're intent. They don't stay in that job without good intent.
It's not possible. It is not possible. It ain't worth it. It is not worth it. But it's awesome, man. It's
awesome. Like it's just awesome. Like I, I would get on a truck with these guys and I would just
look at them and all of just like no matter how chaotic it got, they, they had it and it was like,
this is awesome. I want to be one of them. How often do you walk around and say that? I want to be
one of them. It's badass. They're badass. Absolutely. All you mentioned a couple of times today,
the new book, the new book coming out, tells about the new book, the way forward.
Yeah. So I wrote a book. Me and Rob, oh, Neil, we speak for the same speaking agents.
Me and Rob connected on not necessarily about like combat stuff. But just more about
this life. We both come from small towns. We both are somewhere that neither one of us
you know, ever thought we would be, right? You know, and we both have stuff that haunts us. And
that was kind of where we connected of like, how do we put a book together, kind of talking about
giving some perspective that we're no different than anybody else. You know, that's the
one thing that I always felt like a lot of these war books came back, right after you know,
these war books came out. And I feel like all the way up until Chris Collins movie, there wasn't
really that humanization piece, right? And Chris Collins movie, they they showed more of the, when he
was coming back home between deployments, the struggle sometimes, right? And I think that was a first
time in any of the movies that it ever really hit. And you know, I always felt like in our books that
we wrote, we built ourselves up to be something great, but we never showed that we never humanized
the factors of war. And you know, that was a piece that always got me and we kind of like
when I came home. And so like, you know, in the way forward, it's just about life, like a lot of
stories that I told today, you know, that I've against stories in there, right? Like the, you know,
the story I talk about my grandpa, you know, just about, you know, the the circle. I talk about my
circle and what I talk about Tim Kennedy, the story I told you. I put that in there about how like
between Tim, Shane, and Brandon, my friends about how like, you know, you got the sword, the
shield in the armor, right? And those are like that, that how each of them fit. And you know,
I talk about, you know, my struggles in Alaska, I talk about, not, you know, about like my
divorce. I talk, you know, I talk about all this and I talk about more of the human fact side of it,
to human eyes about who we are. And I know, and I think it's going to be great. It comes out in July,
and I think it's going to be great because at, you know, I think it's coming at a probably a good time
in the country of where people are looking for a way forward, right? And that's kind of where it
comes around. So what's the layout? What's the, normally, as you know, I read books before
people come on here, but in this case, you handed it to me today. And so you've got a new book
coming up. So what's the format of it? So basically, in each chapter, Rod tells a story,
you can find all story. For each chapter? For each chapter. Is there a common theme between you?
Yeah, so like if you look at like if you, you know, when you read it, you know, I haven't looked at it
because you know what, you can give it to me. So today. So that's your tricky way of getting back here again.
Yeah, you know, like that, right? So you know, you talk about like American boys, like that's the first
chapter taking aim, find your heroes, you know, drilling and open your eyes. Like, you know, I talk about,
I kind of, you know, like one of the stories I talk about in here that I felt like,
you know, my cousin Steven was, I mean, you talk about a guy who was always there for me, right?
And especially one of my biggest cheerleaders when I went to Marine Corps. And,
um, man, when I came back and I was just in that dark mode, um, you know, he had a kid,
and married and all this and like he got busy, right? And, you know, he just wasn't answering the phone.
And I took it as, he's like, leaving me, leaving me hanging, right? But really, now that I'm a father,
I get it. Um, so, mean him got into it pretty bad and like, I tell you, I, uh,
I'll over it just because of ego and resentment. Um, I invited everybody in my family except him
to the metal of honor ceremony. And, uh, you know, man, I, that's one of the dudes that stood by me
the whole time, you know? And, uh, just, just stuff like that, like, lessons of,
hopefully, if I can't meet somebody that they can read this book and, and maybe it touches their
life to say, you know what, maybe I'm doing this in my life right now before I go and, and mess it up,
even worse, you know, maybe I, you can look at this as, as a little bit of perspective that maybe
maybe some mentorship, you know, um, but yeah, it's just all stories about that, that you should be able,
you know, everybody could relate to whether you served in combat or you didn't, and Rob's is the same way,
you know, Rob's just talking about, um, basketball about growing up and, you know,
you Montana, I mean, Rob has got some funny stories. I'm laughing because, um,
Rob and I were on deployment. It was like 99 or 2000. And I don't even think we had aimed,
we were like, went to the gym to work out. And there were some dudes playing basketball.
Yeah. And I played basketball. I sucked, but like I played basketball in high school, you know,
when I was a point card, so I could like dribble at some ballhandling skills. I could pass and whatnot,
but I, I would like get more steals in a game than I would points, right? Parts because of my
position, but parts because I, and I was like, I was a hustler, right? I would be, I'd every game
I'd be with like skin knees and skin, it looks like dive on every ball. Well, well, Rob's like, uh,
he played a little bit of college ball and being from Montana, most of the time you find
with people that are from the north, they're really good at shooting because, you know, you can't
dribble in the wintertime. So you just sit out there and shoot, shoot, oops. So he could, he could,
he could shoot. And we're like walking across, you know, in our running shoes, ready to go work out.
And there's some guys, you know, playing some ball. We had one, I think we had one or two other
guys with us. Yeah. And you know, Rob, you know, constantly talking shit to everybody. You know,
he said something like, oh, nice shot, you know, the dudes were like, oh, you guys want some?
And Rob's like, yeah. Yeah. And you know, these kids were wearing, you know, air Jordan.
And they were like, they were ready to run some game on us. Nike shot. Yeah. Yeah. Nike shocks and stuff.
And Rob, I mean, I get, no, you, he's a little taller, right? What's he? Six one, Pice.
Yeah, six, six, six, one. Yeah, maybe six ones. But you're not looking at him thinking he's a baller,
especially he's like, you know, a pale white dude with red hair with red hair. And, you know,
so they're looking at us like, oh, these nerds and sure enough, man, like, it's a great combo.
Because I could, I could ball handling. And I could just, I would just feed him and he's just hitting jump shot,
jump shot, outside shot, jump shot. We just destroyed him and we walked off and we've Rob still talking shit.
You know, like, yeah, I mean, you know, I, I love Rob death.
Uh, great guy. Um, you know, he's, he's always been, I tell you what, he's been one of my biggest cheerleaders.
Yeah, and it was just, it was, we wrote this book together. I think it's, you know, it's going to be good.
You know, hopefully it gets out there and helps people and yeah, you know, it's going to be awesome.
Right on, well, I look forward to reading it now that I have a copy.
Yeah. What else, what's the future? What else you got coming up? You know, I,
you know, getting, you know, getting, we're going to do this book tour starting July.
We're out there. We're, uh, pushing the discipline go. Right. The best flavor there is.
Dax, that's right. So, you know, Dax, have it. Um,
Dax, have it. So you got your own energy drink is what I'm hearing. Well, I don't, I'm on flavor. Yes.
Okay. Well, it's kind of easier. Yeah. Dax, have it, you know.
Um, it's uh, wins the tour taking place. So why do you lie? And then what do you,
you guys are going to different cities? Yeah. So, you know, we're, well, I guess we'll see
you, right? I mean, the right. Because of Miss Rona. Well, yeah. I mean, you know, that,
I guess they're like, they're doing virtual book signing. So we're going to have those going. But,
but, you know, me and Rob both have talked it. We want to get on the road. Like, we want to go out and see people.
I want to honestly, man, I just want to go and get around people and be able to fire people up,
get them excited about life again. You know, get them excited. Look, it's going to be all right. Like,
we're going to, we're going to get through this, you know, get out of the TV, get, get out of, get,
turn, turn the news off, get off social media and stop believing what people tell you and just
look around and believe what you see. Right. And, um, yeah. So that's, that's that, you know,
that's kind of, it's kind of what we're doing to crushing it. Well, before we jump into this support,
I kind of wanted to wrap this up, um, bringing it back to, to Colonel Charles Wittlesley, Wittlesie.
So at his memorial service, there was a friend of his family. This is in Petsfield,
Massachusetts, Adam and Wittleservice. And this family friend, who is also a judge,
a guy by the name of Charles Hibbert, he, uh, he delivered the, the ulogy.
And this is what he said, quote, we can sit here and say, he had so much to live for.
Family, friends, and all that makes life sweet. But no, my friends,
life span for him was measured those days in that distant forest. He had plumbed the depth of
tragic suffering. He had heard the world's applause. He had seen and touched the great realities of life.
And what remained was of little consequence. He craved, rest, peace, and sweet forgetfulness.
He thought it out quietly, serenely, confidently, minutely. He came to a decision not lightly or
unadvisately, and in the end did what he thought was best. And in the comfort of that,
we too must rest and quote and I disagree. I don't think we can rest. I don't think we should
rest. I think we must not rest. What I think we should do is help. I think we need to help
are veterans that are suffering and not just veterans, but people from all walks of life because
life is hard.
And no matter who you are, you either are facing or you will be facing disappointment
and despondency and loss. But don't give up. Just you got to keep fighting.
You got to get out of that echo chamber that your head is trapped in. You got to build relationships
with people. Then you got to move forward. Not just for yourself, but for the people around you.
So let's not rest. Let's help. Thanks for coming along, man.
Thanks for having me. And with what you're saying, that ain't quote, I agree. I tell people all
the time you do matter. You do. The biggest lies, the biggest lies that are told are the ones you
tell yourself. And just as the good times, they don't last forever, neither to the bad.
And you do matter. You do matter. Somebody somewhere is relying on you. Somebody somewhere.
Whether you've met on me or not, they will be relying on you and you do matter. And I'm with you.
Look, there's nothing weak about it. There's nothing struggle is struggle. You know, a lot of times
people, they see us as that, that, that, you know, we don't struggle or we don't have hard days,
because we don't necessarily walk around and talk about all the time, but like the hardest, even the
hardest people on earth, they got hard, not because easy times, they got hard because of hard days,
and they got through it. And it's a choice. And you just have to continue to choose to get through it.
And it's worth it. Indeed. Thanks for having me. Yeah, man. It's a freaking honor to have you on here.
Echo Charles. Yes. I'm not quite 100% sure that it's an honor for me to have you on here, but it's
pretty cool. Oh, it's an honor for you. Thank you. It's always an honor for me to be in your presence.
Yes, very, very big pleasure for you. We want to help ourselves. We want to help others.
What do you reckon? Select. What do you mean?
Hey, do you still have a fire helicopter? I sold it, but I'm getting another one. Are you getting like a
better one? I don't know what I'm making for one. Do you see different ones? Why was that one? No,
good. No, no, no, no, no, no. They only have like so many hours. Was that one getting close to the end?
Yeah. What do you mean like a projector light bulb kind of thing? Well, like after like so many hours,
they have to be rebuilt. Yeah. What models that one that you have are 44, Raventune? And those are like
very common. Yeah. They're like the Toyota Corolla of helicopters. Yeah. It's fun. It's a thought of
this video idea of a while ago, like last year. So like, let's do it. Now he's in the execution phase now.
So he likes to, he likes to, he likes to do it. No, no, I got, we got my buddies. We got like
four or five of them out there. So let's do it. Well, I gained access to a 3D model of your helicopter.
And I saw little videos of it. So I'm like, and so I made it look like you're, so I was going to do something.
But yeah. But you know, it's been a decade. It's been a decade. I'd be a for a year. That's what kind of,
you know, actively we got going on over there. Still doing my research. Hey, the last podcast that just
came out. It's two, I think it's 275. Yeah, 275 helicopter pilot from Vietnam. And there's the best.
You, you, you use a check it out for sure because he just flying that huian. We kind of got more into
the, like a, just questions about like flying that thing and how hard it is to fly a helicopter.
And there was one quote in there. His dad was a master chief in the Navy. So this guy is a freaking
worn officer, whatever, worn officer too. And his dad is a master chief in the Navy. Oh,
was a match. He became like Lieutenant Commander in Navy. And then goes to see him.
Or no, he's stationed in Saigon. The, the dads in Saigon, like we're doing some bureaucratic,
whatever logistics thing. And the sons up freaking fine. Ops every day. He goes and picks up his
dad and brings him up to wherever they were out in the bush and starts flying missions with his
dad. It's dads on the 50 cow. He's dad's like, is that like 45 years old like a Lieutenant Commander
up there just get, they get into firefight's bro. He's dads on the 50 cow. Anyways, his dad says
to him like after a couple of days ago. You know, I, I, I work with a lot of Air Force guys and
those Air Force, those jet fighter pilots, you know, they're always so positive. They're always
having such a good time. And you guys are all miserable walking around like everything's horrible.
What's up with that? And he says, well, dad, Air Force fighter pilot is flying an aircraft that
wants to fly that, that, that if you don't do anything, it's kind of going to just keep flying.
Yeah. He goes, we're flying something that doesn't want to fly. It wants to fly. And if we don't
balance these four different things, it's going to go down. And we're close enough to
know that people are shooting at us with machine guns and RPGs and everything else on top of it.
So you want to know why we're freaking stressed? That's why. Next question. Next question, dad.
He's talking about a father's son relationship after that. Dude, freaking crazy, right? It's crazy.
Hey, dad, I'm going to come pick you up when I'm going to take you on to run some.
They did three days of operations. That's crazy. His dad shot and look, he is that shot
a 50 cow. Who shooting a 50 cow out of the, out of the Huey? That's kind of move a Huey a little
bit. Don't you think? Like you're moving a little bit. I don't know. I'm not, they got so much power.
Yeah, I know things are. Yeah, damn, but the thing is, they do, but it's weird talking to him.
It's the first time that I really got the feeling of like, man, how in touch with those aircraft
those guys were? Yeah, like you, you can't be reactive. Like it's like balancing yourself on a
beach ball. Yeah, and it's part of them. Yeah, they flew to the point where it's part of them. And so that's
why I say like when they're like, like there'd be like a little thing like, uh, they could tell
like how much weight they had on. They're like, oh, we're 100 pounds heavy. How do you tell your
100 pounds heavy on a freaking helicopter? The way they could, they were just, they just knew
everything and they were so in touch with those birds. It's freaking nuts, man. Yeah, it's the power load.
Yeah, I'm much power. It takes to come all. Yeah, freaking crazy. Yeah. Um, yeah, awesome. So echo
Charles, trying to get better. Yes. Trying to be better. What do you recommend? Well, let's start
with these illustrious healthy energy drinks. You know, we don't all have our own flavor.
Maybe someone's doing something. I'm like, you said, I'm a little bit like a
little, you're not all so small. That's all that. Look at that. Some of them will still. But
either way, flavor, whichever flavor, these are good things. Tell us about uh, it was kind of
interesting. How did you end up with this? Who'd you talk to? You? Always me?
You said you're still in touch. I can't remember. Yeah. I don't know. What'd you call me up and say,
yeah, I should have my own flavor? No, no, you, you said it after I, I got
rabbedo on the other energy drink. Right. And you're like, I was like, oh, I remember saying, bro,
you can't be drinking that stuff. What's in it? It's this, this, this, I went through
everything like, bro, let me send you some real shit. Yeah. And then you're like,
we'll make your own flavor. Yeah, then I said, what flavor do you want? What flavor do you like?
Do you see, how did you forget? Well, how are you gonna add? Oh, I remember that. No.
Yes. I remember that now. But I remember saying like, well, what flavor do you like?
And you're like, I like Dr. Pepper. And I was like, okay. All right. We can work with that.
Because that's a cult following Dr. Pepper. It is. People is a cult following. But who wants to drink
high-frupped, those current syrup? Who wants to drink that? Well, probably nobody. If they knew
the reality, nobody wants to drink it. No, I hate it. So what we're talking about is this drink
right here? Well, his drink is called back savage. Back savage. It is black cherry vanilla.
It's totally healthy for you. How many did you drink? You just drink three?
That drink, three, two. You guys are fired up, man.
That's cool. We have to drink three to stay on your level. I don't know, man. I don't know. I can't
even remember that conversation with you about this. All right. So we got we got these awesome drinks.
If you want to get one go to get some go to jockelfuel.com and you can order them. You can also
get them from wall wall on the out on the east coast. By the wall wall, by the way, wall wall
put like put the brakes on me a little bit. They're like, well, because people are like going in
there and buying all of them. And we had to get our supply chain caught back up. So, by changing
it's caught back up. So roll on roll. Go get some clear those shelves. Tax average. Yeah.
Tax average. Tax average is your flavor. Yeah. So there you go. What else? Interesting. These drinks
is like one of those things where it's like, oh, yeah, I'm trying to improve. Let me do a, I don't
know, a pre workout. We'll call it a traditional pre workout energy drinks scenario. Technically,
I mean, it's, that's like a short term. Oh, very short. Half thing with long term detriment.
Yeah, I was going to say it's not just short term like, oh, but I feel good for a minute. No,
and now I legitimately am going backwards. I'm less healthy. Literally less healthy. Yeah.
No, do that. This is not like that. This short term and long term straight up straight up.
Tactical and strategic victory. Yeah. It's like, you know, the, you know, those combination
ancient combination locks on those old school movies. I don't know. Indian and jumped out.
I don't know. I want to be steel. Actually, but it's impossible to do. It's actually not an Indian
and it's, I don't think. Maybe it is. Either way, it's like that. If you figured out the combination,
it's the same. Yeah. That's a short term and a long term and it's healthy and it tastes good.
Interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Incredible metaphor. Also speaking of tasting good,
we've got some additional protein supplementation called milk. I've been on that. I've been on the
train this past week. I have been to actually. Hey, is this a, is it a violation? And I always
have been actually looking at how, I guess I got a sweet. I got a sweet tooth. Okay, is this
violation? Let me put it to the other. You, I don't think you've done this, but this may have been done
from other people other than just me put dark chocolate chips in the milk. Right. Come on.
Yeah. I, no, I haven't done that. But I've done probably something equally. What is it? Is
this a violation? Do you think? Yeah, that's the question. Yeah. I don't think it's a violation,
but I have put ice cream straight up into my milk. Yeah. We'll say it's not a violation, but you're
pushing it. Here's the thing. I did it. I was like, okay, it wasn't worth it. Yeah, it kind of,
yeah, the, it has a, oh, it's going to be a no. No. Yeah. The reason for milk is because it already tastes
like dessert. It's like, can you have something, can dessert taste more like dessert? No, really,
you might opinion. Yes, like, like, I don't know if you like Rocky root ice cream, but let's say
you know, I'm a marshmallow. I'm going to, okay, all right, cool. I dig it then, but what if let's say
you know, it's more is no marshmallow is no. However, lucky charms back in the
world. It's a joke with this eating the freaking mushrooms. I love the lucky charms. Yeah, that guy,
bro. You know, I take the milk and what I do is I mix water with it and I put it in a bowl
in the morning and I'll mix water with it and then I'll like make a pudding out of it and I'll put it in
the, uh, I just I do it first thing in the morning and then I'll put it in their refrigerator
and then when I come home in the evening, I eat it like that. Oh, it's like pudding. Pudding.
It's interesting. Hey, so if you're just telling me those right now. So basically, you just like,
you can't put too much water. So you just put it like you just put like a little bit of water in there
and then see if it mixes it up and if you need just a little bit more, you put it in there until it's
basically like a like mud like mud and then you stick it in there for a generator and it is
listen, well, I'm afraid of you. We'll flavor you do. Well, so I, I like, I may have loved the pumpkin.
I'm just, yeah. The pumpkin is like, it's like pumpkin pie. He just looked like an addict when he said that.
Ah, he's like, I like the pumpkin. We talked about the toe, the DNT toe at earlier. You look more
exciting about the pumpkin. Oh, yeah. You gotta get on the pumpkin. You gotta get on the pumpkin.
That does make sense though because if I don't add enough, whether being milk,
you know when you make it in the blender the normal way. If I put a little bit of peanut butter in it,
though sometimes. So I've even the peanut butter flavor. Yes, okay. Sometimes. You're going to
O D on peanut butter, but it's all because it's very possible. But there had been times where I didn't
put enough milk or I put too many scoops in there. And yeah, after I blended it up, it was like,
oh, this is kind of like almost like a pudding. Now you need to throw it in the fridge. So,
don't let the fridge in the fridge. Oh, it's listen, you'll call me after you do that. And we'll say,
thank you. You'll freeze B to the quota. So, boom, again, another short term long term payoff
situation right there. It's a good strategic victory. Yes, sir. Yes. So, yes, go to
soccer field. That's where you can get all this stuff. Chocolatefield.com. Vitamin shop. You can get
a vitamin shop too. Oh, yes. If you need to get it. Oh, local. Yeah, I'm also this. Another cool
supplements on there. Vitamin D 3. Join the word for a superkilled oil for your joint. We don't want
to worry about that kind of stuff. We don't want to worry about getting sick. No. You're immune
system. We're about that. And you just worry about your immune system. Give it vitamin D 3. You don't worry
about that. It's nothing more. That's my point. You feel me seeing what you see them saying. Anyway,
you can get this stuff also at origin. USA.com. Yeah. It's a lot of stuff on origin. USA.com
by the way, aside from chocolate fuel supplements. Cheers. American made. Geese. Geese.
Geese. Rashcards. Rashcards. Or other purposes. What do you use a rash card for?
So, I'm out of, I'm using a wire rash card, but I wear those shorts as underwear. Oh, dang. Let me tell you
something. Which ones? Yeah. The, I mean, the one that's like the actual underwear. Oh, not those.
No. The ones like have the the constitution on them. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Do you just have to? Or this? Yeah. Those are, well, yeah. Those are those are those are supposed
to be underwear, bro. Oh, so you're actually using them in the correct manner. Yeah. Where
underwear is underwear, what happens when you roll it? What happens when you roll it on without
underwear? Oh, that's the stretch. Really? Yeah. Okay. Hey, the club. I don't know.
He's with you. I'm going to come roll with you, mind. Where? Bro, Dean, let's
start your business. Yeah. Yeah. He's the man. So yeah, that's great. I'm glad he's the man.
Here's the deal. Like in the early G. J. J. J. J. J. There was like this thing in Brazil, where they
would wear like, it's called a song. It's called a sungong. And then there's a long, a longer one
is called a sungong. But a shorter one's called like a sungonger. It's basically a freaking pair of
speedos. And Dean had something like that sort of like in between the two. But they're freaking
basically hot pants. Yeah. I mean, it's basically a speedo. And he'd roll with me, you know.
And like, you know, I'm going to see if I can get a pair. And I just are freaking nightmare.
And I'm glad that those things went out of style. How is it past in the guard?
Dude, it's just all adventure. It's, say what? It's not as bad as North South. I'll tell you that.
It's a freaking nightmare. Like you want to talk about PTSD, bro. Probably better. I got freaking
a damn animal male animal in a pair of white, tidy whiteies freaking all up on me. North South
them on top. Either way, bro. But at least, at least if I'm on top, I can maneuver. And I'm going
on, I'm going, cross-eyed, neon belly. I might even just run away.
Nightmares. I need eye-begined freaking recover from that. And then to be smart. Well, yeah, I think you're
right about that. By the way. Also, and origin-me, we got some American-made denim jeans, boots, boom.
Anyway, check that out. It's a good spot. Also,
jock was a store. It's called jock of store. So we can get shirts, hats, hoodies, lightweight,
end, regular heavy-ish, weight-huddies. This one equals freedom. Good, all this stuff. When you
want to represent, while you're on this path, boom, that's the place to get your stuff. We also have
a subscription scenario going on. It's called the shirt locker. It's a good one. New shirt every
month, different designs. Very interesting. I saw someone has hyped up on social media about that.
Yeah. Well, yeah. Best thing ever. They had the all your experiences with lies. T-shirt.
That's a good one. You came up with that? Irrespective of where I should.
Deeply. Yeah, that's a good one. Look at that one. If I was for you, hey, check that.
Get that. It's good. Jockelstore.com. We also have some podcasts. What's your status with your podcast?
So I'm doing some mean-danned hallway. Do the American Party Podcast.
The American Party Podcast. So what happened to front-toured enemy? So in COVID-19, I just couldn't
get guessed in that kind of like- Okay, so you're back in the game with Dan. What's it called?
The American Party Podcast. So basically we just kind of talk about like what's going on in the
world and we, you know, put common sense logic. Sometimes those things are good. With the situation
that are going on right now. Right on, right on awesome. So check that out. How long have you been
doing that for? Since like November. Okay. So that's right around when you stop. I think your last
episode of Front Tour there and it became out. And then we- And you just rolled right into that. Yeah.
Because it's just like I couldn't get into like interviewing people over zoom zoom. And I was like,
I'm out. Yes, different. It's different. It's different. It's hard to connect with them. I've done
a couple of them. Not for this one. We're trying to maintain the live situations. I've done a
bunch of zoom. And look, it's zoom is zoom is real close. It's depending on what you're going to talk
about. If people are just going to talk about, you know, whatever or some whatever, like not totally
surface topics. But if you're not going deep, you know, we're good. Yeah, I'll do zoom. If you're
if you're doing an interview like a maybe a standard for lack of better term interview like,
hey, this is going on. What do you feel about this? The code of mine. Then we wait for the
code of mine to answer. Oh yeah. Yeah. But it's hard to have a conversation. Exactly. Right.
So check out that podcast from Dakota. Also, you can subscribe to this podcast if you want.
And Echo used to seem to think that there was a lot of people that were like purposely not
subscribing.
Oh, the look on your face when I when I was growing, when I put thoughts into your head. Yeah.
And you know, I've I've tried to do it. You look so puzzled because you look like you you trust me.
And so you go look on your face like wait, did I really do that? No. Okay.
Anyways, let me try to recall when I said you do that in front of trust me. You trust me that I'm that I'm not
sitting here just making things up which I just did. Yeah. So I could never say that trust me. Trust me.
It's broken. No, no.
If you want to subscribe to this podcast, go ahead and do a leave a review or whatever.
Also, I have a jockel unraveling podcast with Darryl Cooper.
New one just came out. They're they're freaking.
It's a good place to learn grounded podcast about you. It's a warrior kid podcast. Some new episodes
just dropped. So you can check that out. If you want, we also have the jockel
underground dot com, which is another it's it's look what it is. It's a way for us to build a
network that we don't have to rely on anybody else. We don't have to rely on it. It's platforms. We don't
have to rely on any advertising. Nothing like that. So if you want to help out, you want to support
you can go to jockel on a round dot com. You can join that. And as a as a thank you, we do another
freaking podcast and answer questions. I'm going to be a now I'm starting to cover a little topics.
Yeah. Little topics. Little topics to give people some perspective because because
not everything is a jockel podcast, right? There's a certain you first of all, you can have a
jockel podcast. Really, that's like 18 minutes long. Yeah. You could, but it wouldn't be what people
are expecting. And normally we don't like to do that. So we made this other podcast talking about
different topics, educational topics, life topics. It's not all about to do with war and all that stuff.
It's not all all leadership, but but it of course it does include those things as well. So anyways,
if you want to check that out, how's this for a topic? You know, in your opinion, this might
pre-liminary thought. I think I might have sent it to you. I might not have the fight to use to get into
you. Not like as an adult, but you know, like as a kid, you know, like you could into like your first
fight. Like what was that? Oh yeah. And then go up through high school. I mean, I don't know. I'm not going
to put, I don't know what your actual experiences, but I thought of it because I was talking with
my wife and she reminded me of something that I said it and that she was like, oh, you're this bad
kid. And then I'm like, yeah, well, when you condense all the fights I ever got in in my life,
kind of seem like I was this bad kid. But it was kind of interesting to kind of go
through those in like debris. Compare. Yeah, it's like you compare your mindset, like as a kid
and then versus as an adult. Yeah, I got some, yeah, that's interesting. That's literally the
next thought I had was like, I wonder if like, because you know how you you've went through like some
stuff, you know, with especially in the hardcore scene and all this stuff. And then it's like, it's a
different, that's a different community. We'll say, yeah, yeah, it's weird to look back at those days.
It's very strange to look back at those days now. Yeah, very strange. So it's like, yeah, that'd be
really interesting. Because it's just a different like what you were saying earlier, Dakota about being
just younger. Yeah. I mean, when I was like 15, like my whole partially developed brain
filled with testosterone and rage. Yeah. Yeah. We got some interesting topics on there. If you want to
up, it costs money $8.18 a month. Again, this is how we're building a contingency plan in case
things go sideways. We'll still have a way to get this information out. If you can't afford that,
it's all good. We got you just email assistance at underground at jockel underground.com.
And we'll hook it up. We got a YouTube channel. Yeah. It's official. official. It's called
jockel podcast. Is that what it's called? It's called jockel podcast. And the good videos on there.
I am the assistant director of. Okay. So you can check those out. A origin also origin has a little
has a channel HD, a little HD that they put out. If you want to know what's happening up at origin,
as we rebuild America. And let's say what pretty soon, it looks like it could be also
if you want to see what's going on down there with origin. Because we want to be expanding
in small other states, some other opportunities are out there. So we can tell you to bring back
manufacturer, not just a main, not just a New England, but to America at large, which is what
we're looking to do. Yeah. True. Also, psychological warfare is an album that we put out a few
years ago, by the way. Still doing well. What it does is what you do is you listen to these tracks
of jockel letting you know how to get past these moments of weakness if they come about.
We work. We work. They will from time to time for sure. And if you might want a visual representation
of maybe how to overcome some weakness, you can go to flipsidecampus.com. Try it.
Flipsidecampus where you can get all your motivation you need to hang up anywhere. You can
you can do canvas prints. We have infused metal. We have or you can just get a like a poster,
like a, it's all the motivation you need. Who owns that company? I know them.
Hey, Dakota has a company here. We talk about every episode, flipsidecampus.com. Where did you
come up with the name flipside? You know, the last thing that my, the kind of fix said to me,
when he kicked off that morning, he said, uh, my I'll see you on the flipside. And, um,
that's for the name came from, you know, flipsidecampus, just trying to do another little part of
changing the world, the same thing that he stepped off to do that day. And, um, yeah, that's where
it comes from to motivate to be able to inspire people, you know. Um, you know, I figured out like
when we look at something, you know, when we, when we view something, it makes us feel a certain way.
It's connected, you know, our eyes are connected right to our soul. And then, um, you know,
so that's where the art came from of like, how do we put things out to where people see this and
feel something that inspires them? And that's, that's where flipside comes from. And also on top of
all that, once again, bringing manufacturing back to America, because it's all made America,
made in Texas, made in Austin, Austin, Austin, Texas, go to flipsidecampus.com, check out all the
cool designs and stuff that you can hang on there on your wall. Got a bunch of books. Obviously,
into the fire, which was Dakota's first book, his new book, along along with Rob O'Neill,
it's called The Way Forward. So you can pre-order that thing right now that way you can get your first
a dish. Uh, you can get my novel. What, Jocca Redden novel about? Oh, you're right about some
more thing? No, he wrote it about a laundry mat. He wrote it about a 1982 Buick Century Wagon.
He wrote it about a big box store and he wrote it about brotherhood. Brotherhood. So if you want to check that out,
check that out. It's coming out in November. And by the way, if you pre-order, you'll get a first
edition. If you don't, you're not getting first edition. Because there's no way that my publisher thinks that
people are going to buy this. They're like, oh, you know, he's, who is this guy? He's a hero,
the, yeah, yeah, yeah, all right. Right, you know, who's going to my novel? He's a nuckle dragger. Cool.
You keep thinking that if you want to get that first edition order up, finals. Otherwise,
when you approach me with your second third edition, it is brutal. Guess what? It's not
getting signed. Approach me with a bowthead. I'll sign it. But bow your head. Bow your head and shame.
Don't watch me while I sign this. Yeah. Bow your head and shame. Because you didn't get in the
game early enough, the book is called Final Spin, Laundry Maths, Station Waggins,
and Brotherhood, Sacrifice. It's a poem, possibly. I just had to read. I just did the final
edits. Oh, yeah. Okay. I got to start reading little chunks of that thing on here. Get it. Get people.
All right. Leadership strategy and tactics field manual code evaluations protocol,
discipline equals freedom field manual. Way the warrior kid one, two, three and four.
Mikey in the dragons about face by Colonel David Hackworth. I wrote the forward on the new
edition. Extreme ownership, dichotomy leadership, the OG of Jockel books that I wrote with my brother,
Dave Favon. We got echelon front leadership consultancy. Where we solve problems through leadership.
Go to echelonfront.com for details. We got EF online. Just coming at you got a bunch of new
courses that we just put up that get granular on the leadership principles. We talk about all the time.
We got the musters. We are executing the muster or Lando May 25th in 26 Phoenix, August 17th in 18th.
Las Vegas, October 28th in 29th. Everything that we've ever done has sold out.
So if you want to come, you got to you got to get registered early extreme ownership.com to check
those out. We got EF battlefield coming up. If you want to walk the halode grounds at the battle of
Gettysburg and learn the lessons from history that came from that battle. Go to echelonfront.com.
Slash events in register. It's like 30 people or 35 people. We sold out the first one. We opened up another one.
It's battlefield. Walk the battlefield. We have dinner. We have lunch. We have Q&A. We have face-to-face.
It's like you want to come and you want to come and squeeze my brain for info. Come to that thing.
And then if you want to help service members active and retired. Their families,
Gold Star family. You can check out Mark Lee's mom. Mom and Lee. She's got a charity organization.
If you want to donate or you want to get involved, go to americasmightywariors.org. If you want more of my
bona fide blathering or you need more of echelon's cumbersome communications.
You can find us on the In-Whebs on Twitter Instagram, which I go on the refers to at the
gram and face bookie. Ecosetacrytrols. I am at a jockelwillink Dakota. First of all, you have a website which is
DakotaMire.com. How do we get the app? Go to on the dash training.com. Can you search for it on
Apple Store or whatever? You have to go through on the dash training. Okay. So in a send you email,
you'll get all of it. Go to on the dash on the dash training.com. Also you are on Facebook to
go at DakotaMire. You're on the gram. The gram. At DakotaMire. Oh, three, seven, ten. And you're on
Twitter at Dakota underscore Meyer. Echo anything else? That's it. Good to see you again. That's always
so good to see you. That was. Not even her view. Well, you know, he's a genuine guy. I like it. Good energy.
You intent of that was really, right? As he holds that knife there. Yeah, kind of odd. Dakota,
anything else any closing thoughts? Thank you for having me on. It's always good to see you.
Yeah, man, for sure. Thanks for coming back. And thanks for coming back and thanks for continuing
to try and help make all of us a little bit better. I know every time I every time I hear you,
every time I talk to you, I feel like you're making me a little bit better. And you know,
more important. Thanks for your for your service. And thanks for setting the example for the next
generation. The next generation. I appreciate it. I appreciate you. I appreciate you answering the calls.
I appreciate you answering the phone. Yeah, I appreciate it. It's an honor. It makes me nervous.
But it's an honor. You know, but the next generation of sailors, soldiers, airmen, marines,
they need to have people to look to. And you're that guy. And to those that are out there right now,
that are protecting us on the front lines around the world, protecting our most sacred gift,
which is freedom itself. Thanks for holding the line. And to our people in uniform here at home.
And we know who those are. That's police and law enforcement. That's firefighters and paramedics
and EMTs and dispatchers and correctional officers and boarder patrol and secret service. All the
first responders. Yeah. Thank you for being there when we call 911. And everyone else out there,
remember that life is hard and no matter who you are. You're going to face challenges. You're
going to face vicious challenges. At some point, you're going to be let down and you're going to let people down.
You're going to have failures and then you're going to have more failures. You're going to be
uncomfortable and you're going to be alone and every one of you out there. All of us, we're going to
lose somebody that we love. That's the way life is. That's what life is. And through all of that,
just remember that you have to get up. Remember to give thanks for what you
do have. Remember to give thanks for what you can do. And remember that your worst day is someone
else's dream. And like the Cota says, our last living legacy is a tombstone.
And that tombstone has your name and it states that day you were born and it states that day you died
but what really matters is that little dash in between. That's your life.
That is your life. So go out there and live it. And until next time, this is the Cota Meyer
and echo and jockel out.